Do you squeeze the toothpaste tube or roll it? What’s the advantage of your method?
How many siblings do you have? What’s your birth order?
What’s something you’ve won and how did you win it?
What’s one of your nicknames? What do you prefer to be called?
What’s something your parents used to say to you as a child that you promised yourself you’d never say—but now you catch yourself saying all the time?
What’s something you intended to do today, but didn’t? Why not?
Using only one word per person, what was your first impression of each person present with you now?
What’s something that people do in traffic that really bothers you?
Who is the closest friend you’ve ever had? Describe that relationship.
What books on your shelf are begging to be read?
What room in your house best reflects your personality? Explain why.
How often do you doodle? What do your doodles usually look like?
What do you do if you can’t sleep at night? Do you count sheep, toss and turn, or get up and try to do something productive?
Which do you do more often: hum or whistle? Hum or whistle your answer.
What animal are you the most like? Why?
How many days could you last in solitary confinement? How would you do it?
Do you save old greeting cards and letters, or throw them all away? Why?
On a scale of 1 to 10, how well do you sing?
When you’re alone at home, do you wear shoes, socks, slippers, or go barefoot?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of being your height?
When was the last picnic you went on? Describe it.
How many discount or savings coupons do you clip in an average month? How many expire before you use them?
Who’s the biggest “pack rat” you know?
Whose autographs have you collected?
What’s something you should throw away, but can’t? Explain.
What food items did you eat so far today?
How often do you get a haircut? Describe your worst haircut.
How particular are you about the maintenance of your car?
Who’s the most famous person you have ever met? What famous person would you most like to meet?
What is your most unusual nighttime or morning ritual?
How often do you read your horoscope? Do you believe there’s any truth to it?
What kinds of movies do you most enjoy? Why?
When was the last time you stubbed your toe so hard it brought tears to your eyes?
How do you get rid of pesky phone calls from telemarketers?
What are you a “natural” at doing?
What’s the story behind a time when you got locked out?
When’s the last time you had to give a speech? How did it go?
How often do you get sick?
What’s something valuable that you accidentally dropped and broke? Describe the situation.
What’s the first thing that comes to mind when you hear the word “fun”?
At amusement parks, are you drawn more to the scariest roller coaster or the tamest merrygo-round? Why?
When’s the last time you square-danced or line-danced? Rate your dancing ability on a scale of 1 to 10.
What are some of the wildest animals you’ve ever touched?
How many hours do you spend on your computer each day? How much time do you spend “surfing the Web”?
What makes you tick?
What has been your best work of art? Describe it.
What is something mischievous you have done?
When you leave a room, do you turn the lights off behind you or keep the lights on throughout your house most of the time? Explain your answer.
What’s the worst tasting thing you’ve ever eaten?
When talking to someone while standing, are your arms usually at your sides, in your pockets, crossed in front of you, or gesturing descriptively? Demonstrate your answer.
What magazines do you subscribe to, and how many of those do you actually read or look through? Do you throw any of them away unread?
Have you ever purchased anything from a telemarketer? If so, what was it? If not, why didn’t you?
How frequently do you purchase lottery tickets or mail in sweepstakes registrations? Have you ever won anything from them?
What’s the best New Year’s resolution you’ve ever made?
When making an entrance into a social gathering, do you make your presence known so everyone notices you, slip in and look for someone you know, or sneak in as quietly as possible and find a safe spot to hide? Why?
How many hours a week do you watch TV? Is that too little, too much, or just enough?
What’s your favorite kind of candy?
What’s your strongest sense?
Are you most likely to finish your taxes as soon as you receive your W–2s or as close to April 15 as possible? How many times have you filed for an extension?
What can your friends predict you will grumble about most?
Do you prefer keeping the television channel remote in hand or giving it up? Why?
How many times a day do you look at yourself in the mirror?
When you travel, do you pack too much or too little? Explain.
What’s the wackiest belief you held as a child?
What’s your favorite beverage?
What are the best steps you’ve ever taken in an effort to improve your health?
When relaxing on the floor, do you sit crosslegged, fold your legs to one side, sit with your legs straight out in front of you, or recline?
Have you ever been an audience member for any television shows? Which ones? For which ones would you like to be an audience member?
What’s one fashion trend you hope never comes back? Which ones have come back that you wish hadn’t?
What magic tricks do you know? Perform one now.
What’s the best (or funniest) commercial you’ve ever seen?
When was the last time you sat on a park bench for more than ten minutes? Describe the occasion.
What’s the most embarrassing thing you’ve seen someone else do?
When something is funny, do you usually laugh raucously, hiss, snort, chuckle quietly to yourself, or smile and nudge the person next to you?
How important is it to you that people remember, spell, and pronounce your name correctly? Why?
What’s your favorite item to cook? Why?
Do you usually send serious or humorous greeting cards? Why?
Would you ever be interested in observing a surgery or do you turn away when the nurse brings out the needle? Why?
Which movies have you watched over and over again?
What do you admire most about your best friend?
What was one vacation that lasted too long?
To feel rested, how many hours of sleep do you need each night?
What’s one guilty pleasure you enjoy too much to give up?
Who performs more random acts of kindness than anyone else you know? Give the details.
What jingle comes to your mind? Hum or whistle it right now and see if others can correctly guess it!
How many credit cards do you have? How often do you use them?
How often do you leisurely eat a meal with friends?
Who’s the jolliest person you know? Describe him or her.
What sound drives you crazy?
What sound lulls you to sleep?
Who’s the smartest person you know?
What food do you eat for comfort?
How often do you read the newspaper? Which sections do you turn to first?
In one sentence, how would you describe your best friend?
How long, on average, does it take you to fall asleep once you turn out the lights?
What items do you currently have stored in the trunk of your car?
Which animals scare you most? Why?
What remedy for curing the common cold works best for you?
Where are you ticklish? How much does it bother you to be tickled?
Is the paper money in your possession right now organized sequentially according to denomination and with the bills right side up and facing the same way? Why or why not?
Are you a hugger or a non-hugger? Why?
What drives you crazy?
Are you serious-minded or a jokester? Why?
Are you more likely to avoid conflict or engage in it head-on? Why?
What was the most recent compliment you received and savored?
What’s something about yourself that you hope will change, but that probably never will?
What’s something about yourself that you hope will never change?
Are you a leader or a follower? How do you know?
Are you more of a rule breaker or a rule keeper? Why?
Would you describe yourself as an extrovert or an introvert? Give an example.
Would you describe yourself as more of a feeler or a thinker? Why?
Are you usually late, early, or on time? Why?
What goals have you recently set for yourself, and how are you doing on them so far?
To what degree are you patriotic? How do you express your patriotism?
Are you a creature of habit? Explain your answer.
In what situations are you most likely to procrastinate?
What books have made a big impact on you?
At what age do you hope to retire? Explain.
How much of a bargain hunter are you? Explain.
How much of a shopper are you? Where’s your favorite place to shop?
Are you ever a high-maintenance person? Explain.
When was the last time you really pushed yourself to your physical limits? Explain.
What’s one of your hobbies?
How much poetry have you written in your life?
How do you typically react in a sudden, extreme, pressure-filled crisis?
How do you go about illuminating “blind spots” in your life?
How mechanically inclined do you consider yourself? Give an example.
How many different conversations can you adequately carry on at the same time?
Are you a person who has a whole lot of acquaintances or just a few very close friends? Why?
How comfortable are you with uncertainty? Explain.
On a scale of 1 to 10, how computer savvy are you? Explain.
Are you superstitious? Give an example.
What one word best describes your mother?
What one word best describes your father?
Do you have a collection? If so, what do you collect and why?
When are you shy?
Do you tend to save everything or toss everything? Why?
What’s something you regret losing, selling, or giving away? Explain why.
How absentminded do you get? Give an example.
Which is better: your short-term or your longterm memory?
What’s your idea of cute?
Are you more inclined to “build your own empire” or “unleash the potential of others”? Explain.
What do you take for granted the most?
How often do you interrupt others while they are talking? Give a reason for your answer.
When you have nothing pressing, where does your mind drift?
What are your career goals?
How competitive are you? Explain.
Are you a penny-pincher or a big spender? Why?
Would you describe yourself as more laid back or more intense? Why?
Are you a risk taker? Why or why not?
Do you care more about pleasing people or speaking the truth? Explain your answer.
What inspires you to write?
What big challenge have you taken on recently?
When was the last time you wanted to scream? Explain.
Do you ever double or triple check things? If so, what?
What bores you?
What’s someone’s idiosyncrasy that really bothers you?
What’s an idiosyncrasy or strange habit that you have?
On a scale of 1 to 10, how controlling a person are you? Explain.
What bad habit do you wish you could break?
On a scale of 1 to 10, how much of a perfectionist are you? Explain.
What’s a strange occurrence you’ve observed but, until now, have never (or rarely) shared with anyone?
Where do you think you spend most of your money?
What do you think about more than anything else?
What books are you reading these days?
What allergies do you have?
How tolerant a person are you?
To what extent do others’ beliefs influence you? Why?
To what degree do you consider yourself athletic? At which sports do you excel?
What causes you to get flustered?
At what time of the day do you feel your best?
What time do you usually wake up in the morning? Do you awaken naturally or need an alarm?
What fear would you like to overcome?
When do you most feel like a slave to time?
What do you consider your best quality?
Are you more task oriented or people oriented? Why?
How do you feel about your age?
Is it more important to you to look good or feel good? Explain.
What’s your idea of a good time?
Are you a compulsive shopper or do you bring a list and carefully consider your purchases? Why?
Who is the first person you tell when something good happens to you?
Whom do you run to when something bad happens in your life?
In what circumstances do your motor skills short-circuit your verbal skills, and vice versa?
In what situations are you most uncomfortable?
When are you the most at ease with yourself?
How good are you at multitasking? Give an example.
What do you do when you want to relax?
Are you an early bird or a night owl? Why?
What’s something that amazes you?
Do you say “goodbye” quickly, slowly, or not at all? Why?
What spells adventure for you?
What tests the limits of your sense of balance?
How much of a “people watcher” are you? In what places do you find yourself “people watching”?
What do you like and dislike most about your current job?
Whom do you call when you need a hand?
What is your greatest physical challenge?
Under what circumstances is it impossible for you to sleep?
How do you best avoid conflict?
How accident-prone are you? Describe a recent incident.
What’s the most important thing about you?
What’s your favorite ice-cream brand and flavor?
What’s your all-time favorite meal, and how often do you enjoy it?
What’s your all-time favorite movie, and how many times have you seen it?
What’s your dream job?
When you need to confront someone, would you rather communicate in person, on the phone, by e-mail, or by letter? Why?
Which do you prefer: the hustle and bustle of city life or the quiet and serenity of country life? Why?
Do you read or study best in silence or in a place with background noise? Why?
Do you prefer exercising your mind or your body? How frequently do you do either?
Do you prefer that people shoot straight with you or carefully temper their words? Why?
Are you more of a dog person or a cat person? Why?
What’s your preference: plane, train, boat, automobile, horse, or camel?
How far in advance do you prefer to plan? Why?
What’s your favorite board game? Do you usually win?
Who’s your favorite talk show host?
Are you a traveler or a homebody? Explain.
Do you enjoy a good debate or prefer keeping the peace?
What was your favorite recess activity: Dodgeball, Kickball, Four Square, Hopscotch, Freeze Tag, or jump rope?
What’s your favorite room in your home? Why?
Where’s your perfect dream vacation spot?
Where’s your favorite place to take out-of-town guests?
Do you prefer to thoroughly deliberate options or decisively draw conclusions? Why?
What is your favorite style of music, and how often do you listen to it?
What’s your pick: hang glide, sky dive, bungee jump, hot air balloon, or kite?
Which of the five senses do you treasure most? Why?
When you find yourself in an argument, do you prefer to leave and resolve it later or stay and settle it right away? Why?
What’s one thing you would rather pay someone to do than do yourself? Why?
What’s one book you recommend and why?
What annoys you most about women?
What annoys you most about men?
What do you like most about women?
What do you like most about men?
What’s your favorite genre of literature?
What’s your preferred method of getting the news?
What’s your favorite color? Why?
What’s your favorite question to ask? What’s your favorite question to answer?
What’s your favorite expression?
What’s your all-time favorite video game?
What real person, dead or alive, do you wish you could be more like? Why?
What’s your all-time favorite band, and what would you give to meet them?
What’s your least favorite thing to do? Why?
What’s your favorite subject to discuss? Why?
When you fly, do you prefer to arrive at the airport extra early or get there just in the nick of time? Why?
Whom do you most admire? Why?
What bothers you most about perfectionists?
How do you prefer to give constructive criticism? Do you typically wait for someone to ask for it or not? Why?
What are your three favorite television shows? How frequently do you watch them?
Of all the tools and gadgets you own, which one do you most enjoy using?
What is one of your favorite souvenirs brought back from your travels? Where do you keep it?
What’s your choice: baseball, football, Frisbee, Hacky Sack, or boomerang?
What are the best and worst sounds in the world?
When you go to a movie, do you like to sit in the back, middle, or front? Why?
Where’s your favorite spot from which to view the sunrise or sunset?
What’s your most and least preferred forms of exercise? Explain.
Growing up, what was your favorite fairy tale or children’s story? Why?
What’s your choice: jigsaw, crossword, or numeric puzzles?
What is your favorite bumper sticker or t-shirt slogan?
What’s your favorite aroma or fragrance?
What’s your favorite spectator sport, and how often do you watch it?
What’s one of your favorite summer activities to do with family or friends?
Do you prefer to plan your vacation or be spontaneous? Why?
What’s your pleasure: horseshoes, shuffleboard, croquet, archery, or darts?
What are your favorite summer and winter sports?
What’s your most treasured piece of jewelry? Why?
What’s your reaction toward people who are outspoken about their beliefs? What conditions cause you to dislike or, conversely, enjoy talking with them?
What is something that bothers you if it is not done perfectly? Why is that so?
Who is your favorite musician, and how often have you seen him or her perform?
Who’s your favorite comedian?
What’s your fancy: bird watching, butterfly collecting, flower hunting, shell gathering, or star gazing?
What’s your favorite fast-food restaurant and how often do you go there?
What’s the name of your favorite magazine? What do you like most about it?
What’s the worst movie you’ve ever seen, and who did you see it with?
When driving, are you more likely to listen to the radio, to CDs and tapes, or nothing at all? Why?
What’s your fancy: skateboard, roller blades, roller skates, ice skates, or snowboard?
What’s your preferred way to meet new people? Explain.
Where’s your favorite place to be? Why?
How do you prefer to learn or memorize new information?
What’s your pleasure: tennis, badminton, volleyball, racquetball, or Ping-Pong?
What is your favorite day of the week? Why?
What’s your favorite season of the year? Why?
When you are home alone, do you need the stereo, radio, or TV turned on? Or do you prefer the quiet? Explain.
What’s your preference: wrestling, martial arts, boxing, or fencing?
Do you have a set place for everything at home or do you simply let things stay wherever they land? Give some examples.
Who’s the best cook you know, and what’s his or her specialty?
Who’s the most creative or artistic person you know?
What’s your preference: motorcycle, dirt bike, moped, mountain bike, racing bike, scooter, or unicycle?
What is your favorite poem or saying? Why is it your favorite?
What’s your favorite quote? Why is it special to you?
Do you prefer window or aisle?
As you fall asleep, do you prefer to be flat on your back, curled on your side, or on your stomach? What position are you in when you wake up?
What type of museum do you most like to visit?
What strikes your fancy: zoo, circus, carnival, county fair, or parade?
What’s your preference: cruise ship, powerboat, sailboat, rowboat, kayak, or inner tube?
What’s your favorite holiday tradition? What meaning does it have for you?
Where’s your favorite place to go when you want to be alone? Why?
Do you remember jokes very well? What’s the best joke you’ve heard recently?
Who’s your favorite person in the whole wide world? Why?
What’s your all-time favorite town or city? Why?
Do you have a favorite painting or drawing? What makes it special to you?
What social issue fires you up?
What are the top three qualities that first draw you to someone new?
What’s one of your greatest achievements?
What’s your favorite birthday memory?
Who was your best friend in high school, and where is he or she now?
What was your first job? How much did you get paid?
As a kid, what did you want to grow up to be?
What photos do you cherish from the past? Where do you keep them now?
Was there ever a time when it turned out you were right, in spite of many others who thought otherwise? Explain the situation.
What one word sums up your high school experience?
When was the last time you played hooky? Explain the situation.
As a child, what was your idea of fun?
When have you experienced poor customer service? How did you react?
What do you remember about your first day of school or your first teacher?
What’s your most memorable (good or bad) airplane flight?
How many bones have you broken? Share the details.
What’s something you’ve done that surprised even you?
How many times have you had stitches, and what were the circumstances? Explain.
What pets did you have growing up? What were their names?
Have you ever seen or called a psychic? What was your experience like?
Was school easy or difficult for you? How so?
What kind of kids did you hang out with in high school?
Who was your favorite teacher growing up, and what did you like most about him or her?
What is the best bargain you ever found?
What’s your most treasured heirloom?
Can you remember the address of one of your childhood homes? If so, what was it?
How have your priorities changed over time? Explain.
When did you get your first traffic ticket? Share the details.
What’s the most dangerous situation you’ve encountered? How did you react?
How did someone plan a surprise for you? What was your reaction?
What was your favorite subject in school? Why?
Who has made the biggest impact on you? Explain.
Who has been your friend the longest? How and when did you meet him or her?
Did you or someone you know ever talk a police officer out of writing a ticket? Describe the situation.
Growing up, for which holidays did your family decorate the house?
Have you ever helped a total stranger? If so, how?
Growing up, what was your favorite comic strip?
What was an act of kindness you offered or received?
Have you dreamed of flying, falling, or running? Describe your most vivid memory of one of these dreams.
Have you ever had a premonition that actually came true? Explain.
Have you ever served on jury duty? If so, what was the case about? If not, would you like to be on a jury in the future?
Did a sibling or childhood peer ever tease or torment you? Share the details.
What childhood accident stands out in your mind?
When the “tooth fairy” came, what did you usually get?
What’s your favorite picnic memory?
Who was your least favorite teacher? Why?
Have you ever been let off the hook for a punishment you deserved? How did that make you feel?
Did you ever cheat on a school exam? Describe the situation.
What was a childhood disillusionment you experienced?
As a child, did you take music lessons or take part in band or choir? Explain.
What “close call” did you have from the past? Describe it.
What’s the best advice you’ve ever been given?
How much trouble did you get into during your school days? Explain.
As a child, did you ever peek into a wrapped gift before you actually received it? Did you ever get caught? Explain the details.
What dream has come true for you?
What’s one of the biggest purchases you made, and how did you negotiate the transaction?
What is your earliest childhood memory?
What nightmare woke you up in a panic?
How has your birth order affected you?
Have you ever suggested an idea for change that was adopted? What was it?
What’s the best prank you’ve ever pulled off?
What’s the best prank someone pulled on you?
Growing up, for the most part, were you respectful or disrespectful to your parents? Explain.
What lasting lesson did you learn from your parents?
What was the last concert you attended? Who did you go with?
What one new thing did you learn in the last week?
How many foreign countries have you visited? Which one stands out in your memory?
How many American states have you visited in your lifetime? Which was your favorite and why?
What has frustrated you in the recent past? Explain.
In what sports, clubs, or activities were you most involved during high school?
Who was your first boyfriend or girlfriend? What was he or she like?
What is the first movie you saw in a theater?
What was the name of your first album/CD?
What’s something that you did growing up that your parents never found out about?
When were you in a situation where something struck you as funny, but it was inappropriate to laugh? What did you do to suppress your laughter? Explain the situation.
What’s a favorite memory with your grandparents?
“Life is not measured by the number of breaths you take, but by the moments that take your breath away” (George Carlin). When have you had such a moment?
When were you in a hospital? Describe the situation.
Have you (or someone you know) ever been on national television? Describe the situation.
Have you ever participated in a long distance walking, running, or biking event? Tell your story.
How many times did you move growing up? Describe your experience and how it impacted you.
What’s the worst weather situation you’ve been in? Explain.
How would you describe your most magical childhood moment?
How would you summarize the highs and lows of this past week?
What was your best or worst job interview?
Have you ever had a challenging roommate situation? What was difficult about it?
What was your worst “nightmare” date?
What was your most romantic date?
What event in your life has brought about the greatest life-change?
What was one of your most frightening moments?
Was there ever a time when you or someone you know was a victim of fraud? Explain.
What was the best or worst job you ever had?
What outside influences have had the greatest impact on your family?
What’s the best thing you ever built or created?
What’s the story behind a time when a car you were in broke down?
What’s the most adventurous or daring thing you have ever done?
What are your best or worst childhood memories of going to a zoo or circus?
What was a recent déjà vu experience?
Did you ever learn to swim? If so, how did you learn? Describe your experience.
How would you describe one of your happiest childhood memories?
What lesson did you have to learn the hard way?
When did you last have fresh flowers in your home? What was the occasion?
If you could be invisible for a day, what would you do?
If you could eliminate one weakness or limitation in your life, what would it be?
If you could change anything about your relationship with your parents, what would it be?
If you could switch job responsibilities with your boss, would you do it? Why or why not?
If you were able to retrieve only one item on the way out of your burning home, what would that be? Explain.
If you could go back in time, what year would you visit? Why?
If you could go anywhere for a one-day visit, where would you go? Why?
If you could spend one hour doing absolutely anything, what would you do?
If you had the opportunity to travel into space, would you go? Why or why not?
If you had an unlimited shopping spree at only one store, which one would you choose? Why?
If you could play any instrument, what would you choose? Why?
If you could talk with only one person for the rest of your life, who would it be and why?
If you could visit with any person in history, who would it be and why?
If you could do something very daring without fear, what would you do?
If you could take an early retirement, what would you do?
If you had the chance to go anywhere for dinner tomorrow, where would you go? Why?
If you were assured you would not fail, what endeavor would you attempt?
If you could be any celebrity, who would you want to become? Why?
If you won a million dollars in the lottery, how would you spend it?
If you had to perform a “Stupid Human Trick” for the David Letterman show, what would you do?
If you could learn to speak a foreign language, which one would you choose and why?
If you could change one thing about your appearance, what would it be?
If you could change one thing about your personality, how would you be different?
If you were stranded on a deserted island, what three “luxury items” would you most want to have with you?
If you could rule the world for one day, what would you do?
If you could change your occupation, what would you do?
If you could give one gift to your children, what would it be?
If you could live anywhere in the world, where would it be?
If you were able to listen to only one music CD ever again, what would it be and why?
If you were to write a book about your life, what would it be called?
If you were imprisoned and were allowed only one book to read, what would you choose and why?
If you could restore one broken relationship, which one would you choose? Why?
If you could bring one person back from the dead, who would you bring back? Why?
If you could live your life all over again, would you? Explain.
If you could possess it, what superhero’s super power would you want to have and why?
If you had to change your first name, what name would you choose?
If you had the opportunity to start your own business, what would you start? Why?
If you could cure a disease or heal a sickness, which one would you choose? Why?
If you could bring peace to one country, which one would you select? Why?
If you could look into the future to find out one thing, what would you want to know?
If you could relive any year, what year would you choose? Why?
If you could have invented one thing, what would it have been?
If you could develop something that’s not been invented yet, what would you invent?
If you were a WWE Smackdown champion wrestler, what would be your name and calling card?
If there were no animals in our world, what would we be missing?
If you were a master sculptor for a day, what would you sculpt?
If you were offered free cosmetic surgery by the best plastic surgeons in the world, would you take it? Explain.
If you could rob from the rich and give to the poor and get away with it, would you do it? Why?
If you could rid the world of one evil, which one would it be? Why?
If you were stranded on a deserted island, which three people would you most want to have join you?
If you could own any sports team, which one would it be?
If you had the ability to compete in the Olympics, what event would you want to be in?
If you had the talent to play a professional sport, which one would you select?
If you could establish one charitable organization, what would it be?
If you could turn into any animal at will, which one would you select? Why?
If you could read everyone’s mind for one week only, would you tell anyone or keep it a secret? Explain.
If you could be a radio or television personality, what kind of program would you choose?
If you were in charge of ending world hunger, where would you start?
If you had the time to volunteer for any worthwhile organization, which one would you choose? Why?
If you had to design a float for a parade, what would you design?
If you could live forever on earth, would you choose to do so? Explain.
If you were to paint a picture of your childhood, what colors would you use? Describe your picture.
If you were on a debate team, what subject would you relish debating?
If you could rid the world of one fear, what fear would it be? Why?
If you could write a best-selling book, what would you write about?
If you were a doctor, which field of medicine would you specialize in? Why?
If you could change one thing about the culture you live in, what would it be? Why?
If you were required to distribute a million dollars any way you wanted, how would you do it?
If you were to star in a movie, what would be your ideal role?
If you could rewrite history, what one thing would you change?
If you were forced to give up one of your five senses, which one would you choose? Why?
If you had to choose right now, who would you select to be in your wedding party?
If you were a gifted painter, what picture would you want to paint first?
If you could give some advice to all parents, what would you say?
If you had to do your life over, what one thing would you do differently? Explain.
If you could be any cartoon character, which one would you be?
If you could make any improvement on how cars operate, what would it be?
If you could teach any class on any subject, what would you teach and to whom would you teach it?
If you could wave a magic wand and stop any one thing, what would you stop? Why?
If you could ask any question of the people you’re with right now and get an honest answer, what question would you ask?
If you could trade places with anyone for one week, who would you want to trade with and why?
If you could make one character from any work of fiction come to life, what character would you select?
If you were a great explorer, what would you explore?
If you could be a contestant on any game show, which one would it be?
If you found an abandoned car with $50,000 in the back seat, what would you do?
If you could own a restaurant, what kind would it be?
If you could run Hollywood, what would you do?
If you could transport yourself at will between any two destinations, which two would you choose? Why?
If you could redecorate your home at no cost, what would you wish to do?
If you could be any age for the rest of your life, what age would you choose? Why?
If you could capture any event in history on videotape, which one event would it be?
If you were to get a tattoo, what would it be? And where would you put it?
If you could grant any three wishes to one person, to whom would you grant them? Why?
If you were going to a costume party next week, what costume would you wear?
If you could take back something you’ve said, what would it be?
If you were to fast-forward your life five years, where would you be and what would you be doing? What changes would people see in you?
If you could say anything to the people you’re with right now, what would you say?
If you were given $100,000 to celebrate someone or something, who or what would you celebrate?
If you could give one piece of advice to pass on to the next generation, what would it be?
If you could hang a motto in every home, what would it say?
What does “success” mean to you?
Do you think there will ever be world peace? Why or why not?
What’s the secret to a long life?
Which is the greater tragedy: an innocent person imprisoned or a guilty person set free? Explain.
How important is it to set personal goals?
Are people trustworthy? Explain your answer.
What is beauty?
Why do you think people live in denial?
What new law is needed to make the world a better place to live?
How would you describe the perfect day?
In your opinion, what is the moral condition of this world?
Why do you think divorce is so prevalent?
What is the ideal age to get married? Why?
To what extent is knowledge power, to what extent is truth power, and what’s the difference?
Do you believe that the human soul is eternal?
What is the greatest invention the world has ever seen?
What do you think is needed to make the world a better place?
What advice can you give about how to conquer fear?
What advice can you give about how to relieve stress?
Why are some people cruel and unkind?
What is the difference between knowing a lot of facts about a person and knowing someone personally?
What do you think is the secret to a happy marriage?
Why do innocent people suffer?
Why do bad things happen to good people?
Do you believe that, for the most part, people are basically good, basically bad, or a mixture? Why?
Is seeking truth a way of life or a season of life? Explain.
Do you believe ignorance is bliss? Why or why not?
Why do you think it’s so hard for people to say they’re sorry?
When does the end justify the means?
What do you think is the greatest problem of the human race?
Why are bad habits so hard to break?
Whom do you consider the greatest president of all time? Why?
What is truth?
What’s more important, a healthy mind or a healthy body? Why?
What makes a true friendship?
Does life imitate art or does art imitate life? Explain.
What is “unconditional forgiveness”?
To what extent is it possible to show respect or tolerance and still disagree?
What does it mean when two people are said to have “chemistry”?
Do you think science will offer the “final answer” to all the world’s problems? Why or why not?
To what extent is cloning a moral issue? Explain.
When is it better to be safe than sorry?
What does it mean to be powerful?
What is the benefit of meditation?
Why is it sometimes hard to forgive others?
What’s most intriguing about the Cinderella story?
How well do you receive criticism from others? Why do most people fear honest feedback and evaluation?
What does this quote mean? “He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep, to gain what he cannot lose.” (Jim Elliot)
What’s the best approach for resolving conflict?
Which is more important: what you say or how you say it? Explain your answer.
Do you think a sixth sense exists? Explain.
Do you think the end or the means is most important? Explain.
When is it appropriate to resort to making a threat? When is a threat not a threat?
What role does trust play in our everyday relationships?
What’s the best way to earn another person’s respect?
When is it necessary to take the law into your own hands?
What is the basis of your standard of right and wrong?
What’s the best way to win back an estranged friend?
What’s the best way to resist peer pressure?
Which is greater, love of one’s parents, one’s children, one’s spouse, or one’s friends? Explain your answer.
What do you think is the most significant event in the history of the human race? Explain.
How would you define “freedom”?
What are the best ways to inspire or motivate people?
What’s the best way to delegate things to others?
In raising children, do you think it’s best to discipline by giving timeouts, discussions, spankings, or a combination? Why?
What’s the best way to negotiate a raise in salary?
Where do you draw the line between helping people and showing them how to help themselves? How do you strike that balance?
What’s a sure way to detect when someone is lying?
How do you measure contentment?
Why do some people resist living lives of moral integrity?
What’s the best way to handle another person’s hostility and ease tensions?
How important is physical appearance when it comes to achieving success or getting one’s way in life?
Is cloning a sign of progress? Why or why not?
What’s the age of accountability?
What is the secret to being content in all circumstances?
Who’s the greatest leader of all time? Why?
Does work really banish three great evils— boredom, vice, and poverty? Explain.
What do you recommend to overcome self-pity?
If you did something wrong, would it make any difference that you did so unintentionally? Would you still be morally responsible? Explain.
How do you define “true love”?
What’s the best approach to use in negotiating a fair purchase price for a car?
How do you suggest overcoming negative self-talk?
Why is it taboo to discuss personal financial matters?
What’s the best remedy for anxiety caused by speaking in front of a large group of people?
When is failure a success?
Is there such a thing as a “just war”? Explain.
What’s your position on capital punishment?
What is the meaning of life?
Why is life so hard? Why is life so complicated?
What’s unforgivable?
If accumulation of money doesn’t bring lasting happiness, what does?
Why are people who win the lottery often unhappier than they were before their win?
What happens after death?
What is it about human nature that tends to stubbornly refuse the aid of someone else?
What is the difference between an intellectual assent to a set of beliefs and an actual acceptance of those beliefs?
What purpose do the emotions of regret, shame, or guilt serve?
Do you think religious holidays have become too commercialized by society? Why or why not?
Do you think the general population is better off or worse off than it was fifty years ago? Why?
What’s the difference between intelligence and wisdom?
What’s one thing you know for sure?
What’s one regret you live with?
What do you live in denial about?
What phobias have you struggled with?
How difficult is it for you to forgive someone who refuses to apologize?
What’s the most serious illness or injury you ever faced?
How are you different now than you were before September 11, 2001?
How would you prefer to die—quickly without warning or slowly over time?
What insults your intelligence?
What’s one conviction you hold that you would be willing to die for?
When is it okay to lie?
What’s your most embarrassing moment?
When have you had to agree to disagree? Explain.
What bad habit have you broken?
In an emergency, which friends would you feel the freedom to call in the middle of the night?
Where are you going?
What impossible task are you facing right now?
What fear are you trying to overcome?
Would most people describe you as humble or proud? Why?
Have you ever violated a confidence? Describe what happened.
Have you ever been falsely accused? Describe the situation and how you felt about it.
What character trait are you currently trying to improve or change?
Have you ever gotten caught doing something you shouldn’t have done? Describe the occasion.
Was there ever a time when you were very sure of something, but were later proved wrong? Explain what happened and how you reacted.
If you just found out you had only two weeks to live, what top two or three things would you do? Why?
What do you suspect people say about you behind your back?
How have you been humbled? Describe the details.
When was the last time you said, “It’s my fault—I’m sorry”? Explain the situation.
What scares you the most about the future?
What hot topic usually turns into an argument with you?
In what situation do you often find yourself “walking on eggshells”?
What traumatic event has changed your life forever?
Who’s the “black sheep” of your family? Explain the situation.
What one person in your life do you find the most challenging? Explain.
What temptation have you successfully resisted? Describe the situation.
What’s something about you that no one knows?
How do you comfort those who have suffered a tragedy or loss?
How difficult is it for you to speak the truth, even when it may be hurtful or unpopular?
What was the hardest era of your life?
Have you found your place in this world? If so, where is it?
If you died today, who would give your eulogy, and what would be said?
What one thing do you fear more than anything else?
How afraid of dying are you? Explain.
What’s something for which you would seek revenge?
What was your last argument about?
How often do you tell little white lies? Give an example.
What is your greatest weakness?
How do you explain death?
What epitaph would you want engraved on your tombstone?
What kinds of things do you catch yourself exaggerating about?
What lie did you tell today?
Have you ever felt like you were taking three steps forward but two steps back? Explain.
What’s the closest you’ve come to having an epiphany?
What would make you totally content right now?
What is something that you failed at?
What mystery have you solved?
When you think of really living and not merely existing, what comes to mind?
What’s something you consider too daring to try?
How at peace are you with yourself? Explain.
Would you want to know the date and cause of your death? How would that information change things for you?
What is the hardest thing you’ve ever done?
What do you think is your purpose in life?
What’s the most ridiculous thing you’ve ever stolen? Explain the situation.
What paradox (or contradiction) in life have you had to learn to accept or embrace?
To what extent are you an argumentative person? Explain.
Why are we here?
To what extent do you trust people? Explain.
Would you ever give up your life for a friend or family member? Why or why not?
If you knew your death could save a stranger’s life, would you give up your life? Why or why not?
What do you hope to discover beyond the grave?
What lesson has failure taught you?
Is your “glass” usually half full or half empty? Why?
What’s the most significant loss you’ve experienced?
What’s the closest you’ve ever come to thinking you didn’t deserve to live? Explain.
What’s an example of your passive-aggressive side?
How do you know this world is not a dream? Can you prove it?
Have you forgiven yourself for past personal failures? Why or why not?
In what area of your life are you immature?
How do you deal with very needy people?
How do you most want to be remembered?
Did you ever witness someone die? Describe your thoughts and feelings at that time.
What important competition have you lost?
What do you hope will be your biggest lifetime contribution to society?
What do you do to get “centered”?
Have you ever broken or spilled something in someone else’s home? Did you try to cover it up or fix it so it would go unnoticed? Explain.
How healthy or unhealthy are you with setting boundaries? Explain.
“I do what I don’t want to do and I don’t do what I want to do.” To what extent do you relate to that statement? Explain.
Do you ever fear “living” as much as “dying”? Explain.
Was there ever a time when your blood “ran cold?” Explain.
How have you dealt with loss in your life?
Is there such a thing as “destiny”? Why or why not?
How would you graciously turn down an invitation to go out on a date? How would you graciously break up with someone you were dating?
What positives, if any, have resulted from the suffering you’ve experienced in your life?
How do you deal with doubt?
What holds you back?
What negative behavioral pattern has been passed down from generation to generation within your family?
What brings out your pessimistic side?
What’s missing in your life? What one thing would make your life complete?
How convinced are you that the sun will rise tomorrow? What makes you so sure?
Who are you when no one’s looking?
How hard is life? How does your life compare?
When was the last time you cried? Why?
How would you describe a time when you felt alone in a crowd?
What makes you stand to your feet and cheer?
On a scale from 1 to 10, how happy do you usually feel? Explain.
What’s your most prized or sentimental possession? Explain.
What or who inspires you to be all that you can be?
When have you been overwhelmed with compassion or overcome with pity? How were you transformed by the experience?
What in this world breaks your heart?
If you had to locate the feeling of “longing” or “yearning” in your body, where would you say it was?
Describe a time when you lost something very valuable. How did you feel when you finally found it or when you realized it would never be found?
How do you handle anger?
What stresses you out?
What is something that always brings a smile to your face?
What mood are you usually in? Explain why.
What silly thing have you done in the name of love?
When was the last time you helped someone in need? Describe it.
What’s one accomplishment that gives you great satisfaction?
What was your proudest moment?
In relationships, are you more often the “heartbreaker” or the “heart broken”? Why?
How many times have you really been in love?
How many times have you had a broken heart?
Whom have you lost touch with but still wonder about?
How have you honored your parents?
What’s the most cowardly thing you’ve ever done?
Who has loved you more than anyone else in your life?
What was the happiest era of your life?
What’s the most courageous thing you’ve ever done?
When have you recently felt overwhelmed? Describe the situation.
What one thing do you wish for more than anything else?
What do you dream about most often? How do you interpret your dreams?
What’s the best greeting card you ever received?
How have you significantly honored another person?
What has recently made you depressed?
Have you ever felt excluded? Explain the situation and how it made you feel.
What was the best surprise you’ve ever pulled off?
What was the best news you’ve ever received?
When did you ever immediately “click” with someone you just met? What was the longterm result? To what do you attribute that kind of connection?
Was there ever a time when you were in need and someone met that need? Describe.
Is it better to have loved and lost or never to have loved at all? Explain.
What prevents you from revealing your emotions to others? Give an example.
What brings a tear to your eye?
When do you find yourself singing?
What color describes your mood right now?
Is there a family tradition that has a special meaning for you? Describe it.
Of the following ways, how do you most like to express your love to another person: touch, words, gifts, time spent together, or acts of kindness?
Of the following ways, how do you most like to receive expressions of love: touch, words, gifts, time spent together, or acts of kindness?
When do you feel the loneliest?
What makes you feel like pulling the covers back over your head and staying hidden in bed all day long?
What brings out your critical side?
What fuels you?
What poem or song really moves you? Share a line from it.
What’s one thing that makes you really angry? Explain.
From what do you secretly long to be “rescued”?
What do you need to feel secure?
What was the greatest day of your life?
When you feel sad, what do you do to find comfort?
What objects from your childhood have you saved? Explain why.
Are you ever satisfied? Why or why not?
Do you use the word “love” freely and often or selectively and seldom? Explain why.
What’s weighing heavy on your heart these days?
What do you do when a homeless person asks you for money? How do you feel afterward?
When you are happy, how do you like to celebrate?
How self-centered are you?
When have you had a cathartic experience and what was the impetus?
Is it better to love or be loved? Why?
Do you believe in “love at first sight”? Why or why not?
Do you believe in “soul mates”? Why or why not?
How is your love for your friends different from your love for your family?
What recent disappointment have you had?
When is the right time to demonstrate “tough love”?
Is there someone in your life who has never (or rarely) let you down? How long have you known this person?
When do you feel insecure?
To what extent do you trust your own judgment or gut instincts? Why?
What worries you?
How do you heal a broken heart?
Who have you loved more than anyone else in your life? Explain.
What do you want?
When was the last time your heart skipped a beat? Describe the situation.
When have you felt like you could “never repay” someone? Explain.
What does silence feel like to you?
What makes you feel jealous?
When was the last time your heart was in your throat? Describe the situation.
Was there ever a time when someone rescued you? Describe the closest thing that comes to mind.
Was there ever a time when you gave your heart completely over to something or someone? Describe the closest thing that comes to mind.
How often do you second-guess yourself? Why?
What situations cause you to hold back and protect your heart?
Have you ever felt like there was no escape; that your heart was trapped? Describe.
When have you felt betrayed?
What’s your most cherished romantic moment?
What fills your heart up to the bursting level?
When do you feel out of control?
Has your heart ever lied to you, or do you think it always “tells” the truth? Explain.
When was a time when you felt honored? Describe the situation.
How often or easily do movies make you cry?
What’s one question you are asking yourself these days?
Growing up, what virtue did you see in your parents that you hope to emulate?
How sensitive a person are you? Explain.
What part of your heart has never been seen by anyone? Why?
Have you ever had someone do something for you or give something to you that you did not earn or deserve? Describe the situation and how it made you feel.
What makes your heart beat fast?
Why do you think there are so many different religions in the world?
Do you think that all the major religions are fundamentally the same or different? Explain your answer.
Do you think religion is an emotional crutch for some people? Why or why not?
What do you think heaven is like?
What do you think most people think about the Bible?
What do you think are the most common misconceptions people have about God?
Do you believe the Bible is actually God’s chosen tool for communication to mankind? Why or why not?
Do you believe in reincarnation? Why or why not?
What do you like most about church, synagogue, or mosque?
Why does God seem so distant?
Do you think most people are spiritually attuned or spiritually ignorant?
What is your attitude toward people who believe differently than you?
Do you think God exists? Why or why not?
If God did not exist, what practical difference would that make in our world?
Is God dead? Explain.
Why do you think some people are skeptical about the existence of God? Why are others so certain he does exist?
Is belief in God intellectual suicide? Why or why not?
Do you think it’s possible for anyone to know for sure if there is a God? Explain.
Why do you think that some form of religious belief is present in virtually every culture?
What do you like least about religion?
Do you think religion is necessary? Why or why not?
What are some characteristics you have heard taught about God that you do not believe?
Do you think religion should be a private matter? Why or why not?
Do you believe in miracles? Why or why not?
Do you believe God is actively involved in our world or detached and distant from our world? Explain.
How reliable do you think the Bible is as a historical document? Explain.
How would you explain eternity?
How many different religions have you studied in your lifetime, and which one makes the most sense to you right now? Explain.
Do you believe in an afterlife? Why or why not?
How do you think the afterlife will be different from this life?
How do you “remember your spirit”?
What does “being spiritual” mean to you?
Do you think most, if not all, wars would cease if no religious differences existed? Why or why not?
Are natural disasters God’s doing? Explain.
How often do most people you know think about spiritual issues? Explain your answer.
If God decided to visit the planet right now, what do you think he would say or do?
Why do you think there are so many disagreements over spiritual and religious matters?
How do you picture the face of God?
Is your image of God more like that of a “grandfather,” a “policeman,” or a “mechanic”? Explain.
What’s the central difference between psychology and religion, or do they address the same need in mankind? Explain.
What about God do you hope is true? Why?
What’s the difference between being moral and being spiritual?
Do you think that scientific discoveries will eventually eliminate mankind’s “need” for God? Why or why not?
What’s the greatest spiritual advice you have ever received?
Given the pros and cons associated with deeply held religious beliefs, do you think that “religion” overall is a positive or a negative thing?
Do you believe that a spiritual realm exists outside of what can be perceived by the five senses? Why or why not?
How would you define “faith”?
Should faith in God be “blind” or should it require evidence? Explain.
What does it mean to take a “leap of faith”? Have you ever taken one?
Do you believe it is possible to encounter God in a personal way? Why or why not?
What, if anything, is the Bible good for?
What determines how much trust you will place in a spiritual authority?
Do you think a person, in order to be a certain religion, must be converted into that religion, born into it, or both?
How much influence has your family heritage had on your ultimate religious beliefs? Explain.
What is it that bothers you the most about religious fanatics?
What are the positives and negatives of joining a small group to discuss spiritual issues?
What did you like and dislike about any church services you’ve experienced?
Why did God start it all?
If you could design your own church service, what would it look like?
How many different paths do you think there are to God? Explain.
What is the difference between “faith” and “religion”?
Why does merely talking about Christianity often muster up negative images and angry reactions?
Generally speaking, does Christianity, with its apparent emphasis on sin, hell, and judgment, dwell too much on the negative? Explain your answer.
What are the various ways people attempt to earn God’s forgiveness or favor?
What is one thing you no longer believe about God that you believed when you were younger? What changed your mind?
What’s one benefit the world has gained as a result of Jesus Christ’s life and teaching ministry?
What’s one benefit the world has gained as a result of Muhammad’s life and teaching ministry?
What’s one benefit the world has gained as a result of Buddha’s life and teaching ministry?
What’s your basis for deciding which, if any, religion is right for you?
Do you believe there is anything to the “power of prayer”? Explain.
From where does evil come?
Why is there so much evil in the world?
What do you think are some methods God uses to communicate to people?
Do you believe it’s possible for people to communicate with the dead?
Do you believe an evil spiritual being, such as the Devil, exists? Why or why not?
What is it about the Bible that most confuses you?
What is your position concerning the concept of hell?
If God can do anything, can he make a rock so heavy he cannot lift it? Explain.
How good do you have to be to get into heaven?
Can a person know for sure that he or she is going to heaven? Why or why not?
Do you think all religions lead to God? Why or why not?
What’s the difference between tolerance of all religions and validation of all religions?
Do you think that in order for one religion to be totally true, all other religions must be completely false? Explain.
Do you think that ultimately, no matter what we believe about God, we will all end up at the same place as long as we are sincere? Explain your answer.
If the world contained no religion, how might things be different?
How do you react to a religious person who attempts to proselytize you?
How do you define a cult?
Can anyone know for sure that his or her religion is right? Explain.
What is your definition of a miracle?
If a bona fide miracle were to occur in your life, do you think that would convince you that some kind of intelligent Supreme Being exists? Why or why not?
Why do you think most people find it difficult, if not impossible, to believe in miracles?
Do you think angels and demons exist? Why or why not?
What do you think angels are like, and what is their function here on earth?
Do you believe you have a guardian angel?
What is the greatest commandment?
What is the greatest sin?
Why do some people become uncomfortable discussing spiritual matters?
What factors have most influenced your current beliefs about God?
What does God want from us?
If you could ask God to do any three things for you, and you knew he would do them, what would you ask him to do?
When and how often do you pray? What motivates you to pray.
On a scale from 1 to 10, how close to God do you feel? Explain.
Rate the level of intensity you have about wanting to know God? Explain your answer.
If a dimmer switch could represent your understanding of Christianity, how bright would your light be?
Has there ever been a time you were convinced you received direction from God? Describe it.
How do you discern God’s direction for your life?
How has your belief or disbelief in God affected your life?
What fears do you have about God?
What makes it difficult for you to trust God?
If you were to explain to a friend what it means to know God personally, what would you say?
With everything in this universe that could consume God’s time and energy, how much do you think God really cares about what happens in your life?
What is your greatest fear about what you’d be like if God were leading your life?
Why doesn’t God do something about evil and suffering?
When have you experienced a situation in which you believe God intervened? Describe it.
What is your reaction to the Bible’s claim that Jesus is the only way to God?
What has been your biggest obstacle to spiritual growth?
Where are you in your spiritual journey?
Using the compartments of a car, how would you describe where God fits into your life (trunk, driver’s seat, back seat, glove compartment, passenger seat, etc.)? Explain your answer.
What prevents you from taking steps on your spiritual journey now?
Who will be in heaven? Why?
If God were to step in and wipe out every trace of evil, what would that do to the human population? Where would that leave you?
When have you seen “hell” here on earth?
Why do you suppose God doesn’t just eliminate Satan now?
Where was God when terrorists attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon?
If you were to die today, would you go to heaven? On what do you base your answer?
If you could prove beyond a reasonable doubt that God exists, do you think you would seek out a relationship with him?
If you believed in the God of the Bible, do you think it would impact the way you lived? Why or why not?
Have you ever had something you would call a “spiritual experience”? Describe the situation.
What religious issues are you struggling with these days?
What kinds of things do you pray about most frequently?
What personal religious experiences have had the most profound impact on you?
How certain are you that your current belief about God is correct? What would change that?
What do you think is the difference between a religious person who makes it into heaven and one who does not?
Do you think it is possible for a man to gain the whole world and yet lose his soul? Explain.
What does it mean to be made in the “image of God”?
What would you suggest would be the best way for God to show his love?
What’s your favorite Bible verse and why?
What’s the most reassuring Bible promise you know? Explain your answer.
Was there ever a time when you sincerely wanted to know God’s will regarding a decision you needed to make? What was the outcome? Describe the situation.
What season are you currently in with regard to your spiritual life?
What surprises you most about Jesus Christ?
According to your understanding, how would you summarize the central message of Christianity?
What’s something most of your friends don’t know about your spiritual side?
What do you think God would say to you right now?
What do you think God will say to you when you die?
Why do you think Jesus was born? Why were you born?
What’s one thing about the existence (or nonexistence) of God that scares you?
The Bible says, “God is love.” What does that mean to you?
Who is Jesus Christ to you?
What’s the first question you will have for God when you die?
Who’s the closest thing to a spiritual mentor to you?
How has God demonstrated his love to you?
What has produced the greatest spiritual growth in your life?
Have you ever prayed a prayer of desperation? Describe the situation.
How have you been disillusioned by religion?
How comfortable are you discussing spiritual things with others?
How is it possible that the death of one (Jesus Christ) overcomes (forgives) the sins of many (the whole human race)?
Do you think it is possible to have a false sense of security about your eternal destiny? Explain.
What do you think it means to be “born again”? What’s your knee-jerk reaction to this term?
Is there something spiritual missing in your life? Explain.
Do you agree with this statement: “Going to church doesn’t make you a Christian any more than going to a garage makes you an automobile” (Billy Sunday)? Why or why not?
How would you define sin?
What are the repercussions of sin, if any?
Do you think it is possible to be indifferent or neutral toward God without offending him?
What is your biggest personal spiritual dilemma or challenge?
What do you think was the purpose of Jesus Christ’s death?
What reasons do you think Christianity gives for its assertion that Jesus is the only way to God?
In what ways is the Christian life difficult or impossible to live?
How has God changed you?
What do you think God’s attitude is toward you?
Do you think becoming a Christian is an ongoing process, something that happens at a specific point in time, or a combination of the two? Give reasons for your answer.
Why should God let you into heaven?
Do you think God has ever used pain and suffering to get your attention? If so, what was he trying to get across to you?
How confident are you about what will happen to you in the afterlife? Explain.
Do you have any fears about being wrong about your spiritual beliefs? Explain.
If you were face-to-face with Jesus, what would he say to you? Give a reason for your answer.
Can hell, God’s justice, and God’s love all be real at the same time? Explain your answer.
How comfortable would you feel about praying out loud with someone? Why?
How do you distinguish God’s voice from your own thoughts?
What miracle do you wish God would perform right now?
What’s one doubt you have regarding the existence of a Supreme Being?
What would Jesus do if he were in your shoes?
When have you experienced the closest thing to a miracle? Describe it.
If you were to identify someone as a Christian, what definitive factors would you look for to support that claim?
Have you ever meditated for spiritual purposes? If so, describe your experience.
Have you ever been baptized? What does the sacrament of baptism mean to you?
How do you “feed your spirit”?
What’s the closest you’ve come to having an encounter with God? Describe it.
To what extent is your view of God influenced by your view of your father?
For what are you most thankful to God?
In your opinion, is the Christian message mostly “good news” or mostly “bad news”? Explain your response.
When was a prayer of yours answered? Tell about it.
How frequently, if ever, do you read the Bible? What motivates you to read the Bible?
What’s one thing about God you don’t understand?
Do you make comparisons with others on a spiritual level? Why or why not?
How would you describe your own moral condition?
Do you believe sin causes a gap between God and you? Why or why not?
Do you ever become angry with God when things go wrong? Why or why not?
Do you find it easy to ignore or avoid facing up to deep spiritual matters? Why or why not?
In what ways do your religious beliefs impact the way you live your life?
If you could ask God one question you knew he would answer right away, what would it be?
What things about me remind you of anyone from your past, either past sweethearts or good friends?
What do you think are my talents? Do you think you have any of the same talents?
How many physical fights have you been in? Do you usually start them? Why do you fight?
Has anyone very dear to you died? How did you handle it?
What are you most fearful of? How does that fear keep you from doing things you would like to do?
Are you chirpy in the morning or are you a grouch?
Do you ever pick up hitchhikers? Which type of people would you pick up?
How often do you think your gut feeling is correct? When can you remember that it was incorrect?
What one skill do you wish you had learned but haven't yet (Play the piano? Learn a foreign language? Fly a plane? Etc.)?
Does public speaking frighten you? Have you had much experience with it?
What sort of reaction do you have when you get very upset?
Is it ever appropriate for someone to express anger in a physical way? If so, when and how?
How do typically handle the trauma from a big loss whether it is from the death of a loved one, getting fired or some other big disappointment?
What is your typical reaction when someone criticizes you?
About what things are you most selfish?
Do you think that you are able to calmly and wisely react in emergencies? What are some examples of emergencies you have had?
How did you feel when a beloved pet of yours died?
Do you have a dream that repeats again and again? What is it?
What feeling do you have the most difficulty controlling?
What feeling do you have the most difficulty expressing?
How do you think I handle myself when I'm in a crisis situation?
If you could choose to know everything about one topic, what area would you choose to be an expert?
How would someone be able to tell if you're happy? If you're sad?
Are you an organized person?
If a fire destroyed your home and all of your belongings, what would you do? If you could take out three things before the blaze, what would they be? (Assuming there is no one in the house at the time of the fire.)
If you were a very talented writer and were guaranteed to sell 100,000 copies of whatever book you wrote, what would it be about?
Does any particular season make you happier than others? If so, do you know why?
Do you like your first name? Have you ever wished you had a different name? What name would it be?
When you are sick and feeling poorly, do you like to be alone or do you like to be pampered and have someone close to your side most of the time?
What is the most thoughtful, caring thing you have ever done?
Do you ever think that your partner gives more time, love and affection to a child or pet and it makes you jealous?
Do you like to exaggerate things for effect?
If you had to be a different nationality, what country would you like to have been born in? Why?
If you were given $50,000 to throw a party for all of your friends, what sort of party would you put together?
Are you a morning, a night person or somewhere in the middle?
Do you think you would prefer a calm, loving, consistent marriage or one that was full of excitement, wild times and rocky patches?
Do you think you are a fairly typical man/woman in the way you think, act and believe?
Are you one who adapts to change easily? Can you cite some examples?
Do you have a child's heart sometimes? What sort of “childish” things do you think about doing?
Are you generally an optimist, pessimist or a realist?
How often do you cry? What situations often bring you to tears?
What makes you feel secure and safe?
Do you tend to analyze your decisions before you talk about them or do ideas and thoughts blurt out without much forethought?
Would you describe yourself as a peace-keeper or a trouble-maker?
What type of social gatherings do you prefer - small groups or large parties?
Do you like to be the life of the party or do you prefer intimate, one on one conversation?
Are you more of an introvert or an extrovert? Does it change depending on the crowd?
Do you experience PMS? Is it mild or severe? How does your mood change and for how many days? How do you want to be treated during your period?
What do you tend to be humble about? When do you catch yourself being arrogant?
Do you tend to keep a lot of thoughts and feelings to yourself or do you share them pretty openly?
Do you ever lose your temper? How does it manifest itself?
Do you give money to homeless people/beggars? Why or why not?
What experiences usually make you filled with joy?
Do you currently believe that you are mature and experienced enough to be able to build and maintain a very successful marriage?
When did you feel you were ready or when do you think you will be there?
Which do you think should have the final say in decisions - logic or emotions? Why?
In what circumstances do you feel most at peace?
Men, what do you think is the best thing about being a guy? Women, what do you think is the best thing about being a female?
Do you think of yourself as mechanically inclined?
If you were given the opportunity to successfully run for president, would you do so? When you won, what three things would you most like to improve in your country?
If someone gave you one million dollars that you were required to give to some person or organization, who would you give it to?
Do you enjoy hugging people? Do you like receiving hugs?
What five things have you done in your life that you are most proud of?
Tell me about the most emotional cry that you can recall.
Has there ever been a time when you felt like you were going to "lose it"?
If your partner had an affair, how would you react? Could you forgive him or her?
If your partner had a one-night fling after drinking too much, how would you react? Could you forgive him or her?
Are you able to keep secrets? Is it hard for you?
Have you ever given a speech? What was the last one about?
Does anyone give you an inferiority complex?
Do you think that luck has much to play in your life?
Do you find it difficult to compromise on things?
Do you have a fear of being alone? Rejected? Unloved?
Is there anything that makes you feel homesick, nostalgic or sentimental?
Do you have an idol? Do you try to model yourself after him or her in some way?
Do you think of yourself more as a leader or a follower?
Over the last five years how do you think you have changed for the worse? Better?
Did you have a point in your life where you turned your life around?
What one thing could you change in your behavior that would make your relationship closer? What is keeping you from making that change?
Is there anything that you constantly worry about?
If someone tells you a juicy tidbit about a friend or coworker, do you have difficulty keeping it to yourself? Do you ever tell people they shouldn't gossip?
If you were paid a salary to work for any one charity for an entire year, which charity would you choose?
Would you rather be mute, blind or deaf? Which of the three would be the worst?
Is there anything that you have practically no self-control over (ice cream, offers for a roll in the hay, a bargain shoe sale, a beanie baby for your collection, etc.)?
Do you think you are interesting or a bore?
Are you more sensitive than most people of your gender?
Do you usually ask for help or support or do you prefer to fail all on your own?
If you had huge financial losses and had to liquidate all of your possessions including your car and home, what would that do to your self-esteem?
What makes you feel important?
How would you rate your maturity among your peers?
What is your number one flaw? What steps are you taking to overcome it?
Do you see yourself as worthy of love? Why or why not?
What is your greatest disappointment?
Have you ever worked really hard at something but it didn't pay off in the end?
Do you have a "special place"? Why is it so meaningful to you?
Why do you feel that you are trustworthy?
Do you think you are competitive? In what areas?
Am I a nagger? How so? Does it irritate you?
Are there any rituals you do every day?
How do you feel when someone close to you disagrees with you?
In which areas of your life do you feel like you are an independent?
In which areas are you dependent on others?
Do you enjoy debating others?
In what ways do you feel really blessed?
What things tend to make you angry? How do you usually react when you are angry?
On which topics do you feel qualified at giving advice?
Would you make a serious attempt to lose weight if your partner asked you to?
How do you think I could enjoy life more?
What is a talent that you wish you possessed?
Do you write important dates such as birthdays and anniversaries in your calendar? Do you use a calendar? Do you usually remember those dates?
Have you ever played any musical instruments? Which ones and do you still play them?
If you had to be famous, what would you want to be famous for? Do you think fame would be a good thing or a bad thing for your relationship?
If you knew you would die in two days, how would you spend the time until then?
How many hours does it take until you can't stand being alone anymore?
What makes life worth living?
Do you think I am a lot like the other members of my family? How am I like them?
What are your thoughts on crying?
Can you think of any trait of mine that reminds you of your father or mother?
Are you a balanced person? If so, how did you get to be balanced? If not, what steps do you need to take to be more balanced?
If you could make any three changes to our school systems, what would they be?
If you could live one year of your life all over again without changing a thing, what year would you choose? Why?
Do you prefer receiving expensive gifts or ones that come from the heart?
Do you know most of your neighbors? Do you ever socialize with any of them?
Have you ever lived alone? Do you or did you enjoy it?
Someone once said "A women who does not feel loved needs jewelry, gold and dazzling gifts to be happy. A woman who truly feels loved finds those gifts to be superfluous (nice, but not necessary)".
Do you agree?
Prior to this year, what is the best gift you've ever received? Why was it so special?
How do feel about your mate reading your private email?
Are you camera shy? Why?
Do you feel that you need to be occasionally held or emotionally supported by someone who is strong? Why or why not?
Do you generally make to do lists? Would you like it or be offended if your mate helped you make a to do list?
Do you feel like you waste a lot of time? Do you wish you didn't? Do you feel that your partner wastes a lot of time? Does that bother you?
Do you tend to be punctual or are you usually late?
What are some things that you consider a waste of time?
What do you like most about my personality?
Do you have a favorite type (or a couple) of music? A favorite singer? Or musical group?
What is your favorite fast food restaurant? How often do you eat there? What's your favorite restaurant for casual dining? Favorite special occasion restaurant?
Do you remember what your favorite childhood books were?
Do you have a favorite movie? Actor? Actress? Comedy? Drama?
What's your favorite alcoholic beverage?
What meal would you eat most often if you could? Do you have a favorite "fancy" meal?
What is your favorite snack food? Dessert? What's your favorite ice cream flavor?
Do you have a favorite and least favorite day of the week? Why do you feel that way?
What is your favorite time of day?
What's your favorite candy bar?
What is your favorite ethnic cuisine?
If you could have any pets you wanted and had the space and money to properly care for them, what pets would you want to have?
Are you allergic to animals? If your fiancé was allergic to your pets, would you be willing to give them away to a good home?
Are there any types of pets that you refuse to live with (snakes, rats, stray dogs, etc.)?
Do you allow your pets to be on the furniture?
Do you get your pets "fixed" or do you allow them to keep producing litters? What do you do with the babies?
Are there any circumstances where you think it is a good idea to put animals "to sleep"?
Do you think that it is cruel to keep a dog in a cage or tied up most of the time?
How do you feel about dogs that are bred to attack and have been known to kill children (Pit Bulls, Rotweillers, etc.)?
Do you feed your pets food off of your plate? How do you feel about that practice?
Do you take your pets with you on short trips? Long vacations? Do you put them in a kennel or have a friend watch them?
Do you have a preference for cats or dogs? Indoor pets vs. outdoor pets?
If you get a pet for your children and they don't take care of it, who will be responsible for cleaning up after it, feeding it and walking it?
How do you feel about getting dogs professionally groomed?
If you and your mate purchased a pet and later split up, how do you think you would decide who got the pet?
How do you feel about pets being in the bedroom or sleeping on your bed?
If you didn't like your mate's clothing or hairstyle, would you tell him or her? Would you want your partner to tell you?
What first attracted you to me? How has that one attraction changed since then?
If you went bald, would you consider wearing a toupee or getting hair plugs?
Would you want your spouse to talk with you first before they dramatically changed their hairstyle or facial hair?
If your partner asked you to shave or not to shave (face, underarms, legs, pubic area) would you do it? What is your preference for shaving those areas?
If you had problems with my personal hygiene, would you be able to tell me?
What physical or personality trait do you think makes people first attracted to you?
Do stylish clothes, nice hair, expensive jewelry or "things" make you feel better about yourself?
Do you think you tend to attract a certain type of person?
Do you feel like you need to dress sexy? Why or why not? Do you feel that people who dress sexy are sending the message that they are interested in sex?
How do you feel about permanent tattoos? Why do you think most people get them?
If you suddenly became blind, how would your idea of the perfect mate change?
Do you believe in love at first sight? If so, what about the millions of cases when love at first site ended in disaster?
Do you really like the way I dress? What changes could I make that would please you?
Which do you think you would rather have: a gorgeous mate who wasn't very interested in sex or very good in bed or a very ordinary looking spouse that was awesome in the sack?
If you could be any height and build you desire, what would it be?
Should your sweetheart love you just the way you are, or would you be willing to make some changes (the way you dress, shaving, new hairstyle, etc) to become more attractive to him or her?
In what ways are you smart?
How would you feel if your mate wanted to wear matching outfits or dress like you?
What do you find attractive about my physical features? Is there a favorite?
If you were single and wanted to write a personal ad describing your qualities, how would it read?
Do you fear looking older?
How do you feel about women wearing makeup? What do you think is ideal?
What is your opinion on women spending money to get their nails done? Do you have a preference on how you like women's nails?
What do you perceive to be your physical flaws?
Are you currently comfortable with your body? If not, what would you change to make you comfortable?
How would you feel if I had breast implants?
If you could change one thing about your body, what would it be?
What outfit of mine is your favorite? Why is it?
Do you think that dressing is something you do out of necessity or do you enjoy putting outfits together?
If your aunt left you a large sum of money in her will for you to have any sort of plastic surgery you desired would you have anything done?
Name one or two minor changes I could make to my appearance that would make me more attractive?
Do you have any phobias, fears or concerns about going to the doctor?
Do you have any concerns over vaccinations or flu shots for you or your children?
What are your feelings about recreational drugs? Have you ever taken any and if so, how long did you use drugs? Do you still use them?
Do you have any concerns about my health or unhealthy habits?
Second hand smoke is one of the leading causes of cancer and breathing related illnesses. Will you allow anyone to smoke around your children? If you smoke now would you make a serious attempt to quit before having children?
Have you ever suffered from depression (not just feeling blue, but a feeling of extreme sadness that leaves you nearly paralyzed)? If so, what brought these feelings on, how long did the depression last and what therapies worked for you?
Have you ever had serious thoughts about committing suicide? What are your thoughts about those who kill themselves?
Do you think tobacco should be banned since it is an addictive drug?
If that happened what affect would it have on people's lives 20 years from now? Should marijuana be made legal? How would that change affect society 20 years from now?
When, if ever, was the first time you smoked a cigarette? Why did you try it? How long did you smoke? If you still smoke, have you ever seriously tried to quit?
Do you smoke (or chew tobacco)? How often? How long have you been doing so and have you ever tried to stop? What methods?
Which meals would you like to be able to eat together? Do you think we will be able to consistently do so?
Do you get irritated when you have to wait in long lines? Will you wait 45 minutes to be seated in a restaurant?
Do you have any special dietary needs? How do you need me to support you with this need?
Do you consider yourself in shape?
Do you live to eat or eat to live?
What do you think are your optimum hours of sleep to be fully energized?
Do you ever diet? What sort of diets do you usually go on?
How often do you get sick? Is it a cold, flu or usually something else?
Are you a coupon collector? Do you sometimes get fanatical about saving money on groceries?
How many drinks does it take until you are definitely "feeling it." Do you cut yourself off after a certain number of drinks? Or when do you know you have had enough?
Have you ever had an emotional breakdown or been diagnosed with a mental illness? How long did the recovery take?
What do you think about eating meals (with your family) in front of the television? Do you think family time and discussions around the dinner table are important?
Do you have any rooms that are off limits for bringing in food?
Do you find that you eat when you are bored, stressed, or worried?
Are there emotional times that make you want to eat?
Have you ever deliberately thrown up food or ate tiny amounts of food to lose weight?
How much time per day/week do you currently exercise? How much time do you think you should spend? How do you think we could help each other with our exercise regimens?
Do you have any particular health concerns (e.g. heart problems, high blood pressure, diabetes, asthma, etc.)?
Do you get a regular medical checkup? When was your last one?
Are you more likely to take over the counter medicines, prescription medicines, homeopathic medicines, natural remedies or nothing at all when you are sick?
Do you cook or do you only eat prepackaged food? How often do you go out to eat?
Will you eat everything on your plate no matter how much is there (assuming you like the food)? Or will you quit when you feel full enough? Do you need to feel "stuffed" to be satisfied?
What form of exercise do you prefer?
Do you currently suffer from a sleeping disorder? Have you ever?
Do you enjoy eating leftovers? Do you refuse to eat leftovers?
Do you always like to sample your partner's food in restaurants?
Does it bother you if someone always wants to taste your food/drink?
Have you ever done any stupid or dangerous things when you were drunk? Like what?
Do you regularly take vitamins? Do you think the foods you eat have enough naturally occurring vitamins in them?
Could you ever be married to someone whose breath and clothes always reeked of tobacco?
Do you try to eat healthy meals? Organic?
Are you currently on any medication? What for?
On average, how many alcoholic beverages do you have in a week?
Is that all at once, on the weekend or spread about through the week?
Do you like to plan your week's menu in advance or cook whatever you are in the mood for (or have ingredients for)?
Do you enjoy cooking for company or do you feel inadequate?
Do you usually just buy what you need at the store, whatever is on sale, or whatever looks good?
Are you highly critical of the food and service when you dine out?
Can you go out and enjoy a meal or do you always have to "rate" it?
Are you fearful of germs or food poisoning and tend to toss everything out of the refrigerator that is more than a week old?
Were you taught proper table manners growing up? Do you feel that your table manners need improving? Would you like for your mate to point out where you could improve? Do your partner's table manners embarrass you when you eat in public?
Do drink coffee? If so, how many times a week and how many cups each day? Do you feel that you need a caffeine "fix" to get going for the day?
Do you ever drink and drive? Would you agree not to if your partner had a big problem with you doing so?
Do you have any allergies?
Have you been abused in any way - sexually, emotionally, or physically? Do you still have emotional scars from it? Have you ever counseled about it?
Are you a gourmet - enjoying trying all sorts of international cuisine or do you prefer to eat the same basic food all the time?
Do you remember your first alcoholic drink? What were the circumstances?
Who do you think should be responsible for grocery shopping and cooking in a marriage? When you are married how many times a week do you think you would eat out?
What foods do you really dislike? Are there any foods you don't eat for health or other reasons?
Have you ever been hospitalized? What for? What was the experience like?
Do you enjoy experiencing different ways of life or do you usually find it frustrating that they don't do things as efficiently or like the way things are done back home?
Have you ever traveled out of the country? Do you have a passport?
When does it expire?
Do you usually do some business while you are on vacation (answering email, checking voicemail, returning phone calls, etc.)?
How much time each day? Is that pretty much necessary?
Would you rather take a one-week $5000 vacation or would you rather go on three different one-week vacations that cost $1700 each?
What is the maximum length vacation you think you could take away from work without causing a problem? If you were retired or between jobs how long could you be away?
If you could plan any vacation for us, where would it be?
When you travel, what is your usual goal (relax, sight see, see friends/family, do culture things, eat at new restaurants, etc.)?
Do you go back to the same places again and again or do you desire to go to new places most of the time when you travel?
Do you like to travel on the spur of the moment (hey, let's drive to the mountains next weekend)?
How many times during the year do you travel? How many times for business and how many pleasure vacations?
How much does your typical one week vacation cost (not including air fare)? Do you think you take budget vacations, moderate or expensive trips?
Do you fly as cheaply as possible or do you splurge for business or first class when going on vacation?
Do you tend to get sea sick or motion sick? What cures have you tried?
What was the best vacation you've ever taken?
Have you ever been on a group tour? What do you think about them?
Do you like to take vacations that are activity oriented (cycling trips, skiing trips, scuba trips, etc.)?
Do you enjoy camping? What eating/sleeping arrangements are tolerable?
Who looks after your home when you are away on vacation?
How do you handle the language barrier when you travel to foreign countries? Are you willing to visit places where your language might not be spoken?
Do you think you would enjoy going on a vacation with your sweetheart's family? Would you detest it or do you not know them well enough to decide?
What are your thoughts on separate vacations? If we had limited income and different travel priorities, do you think we should take vacations without each other every once in a while?
When you go on a vacation with someone, do you like doing everything together, most things together or most things on your own and then getting back together for meals?
If you and your mate each have an income and maintain separate accounts, how do you split the costs of a vacation?
What sort of research, if any, do you do before you travel somewhere?
How do you feel about going on weekend getaways?
If you enjoy traveling, what places do you like to go to most often?
Are there any places you have no desire to go to?
Do you arrive at the airport ahead of time in case problems arise or do you try to get there at the last possible minute so you don’t have to wait?
Do you save up for a vacation or do you put it all on credit and pay it off as you can?
How many weeks each year can you take off from work?
If we ended up having opposite political views, how would that affect our relationship? Any particular issue you would find difficult to tolerate the opposite viewpoint?
Have you ever committed a felony? Have you ever been arrested?
Are you listed as an organ donor on your driver's license for when you die? Would you like for your organs to be donated?
Do you have a position on the government killing men and women who have knowingly committed murder?
What do you think about pornography? Do you think it is ever helpful?
How do you feel about men and women killing people from other countries? Have you already been in a war? How did it affect you to have to kill (or support those who killed) others?
Are you an activist for any causes?
Do you think you could kill a person if they were threatening the life of your loved ones?
Would you be able to marry someone who formerly was in a gay relationship or had a few homosexual experiences prior to dating you?
Is there anyone you would be willing to die for?
Do you vote regularly? Do you vote straight Republican, Democrat or other party? Or do you analyze each candidate and vote for who you think is most qualified regardless of party affiliation?
Are you currently involved in any criminal activities right now?
Would you steal a car for $200,000 if you would be certain that you would not be caught? What about for $1,000,000?
How would you feel if one of your friends said he or she was gay?
Would you still want to socialize with him or her?
Are you often embarrassed about how most of your race behaves?
Do you think your race is superior to all others/most?
How do you feel about gambling? If your company sent you on a business trip to Las Vegas, what limit would you place on yourself for gambling each day?
To what extent are you involved in politics?
How do you feel about having guns in your home?
Do you have guidelines regarding movies you will not see?
Do you use foul language? Why do you do it? Does it bother you when you hear others cuss?
Is there anything you would physically fight for?
If you found a wallet with $300 cash in it, would you return it to its owner? Would you turn it into the police if there was no identification in it?
Do you feel strongly against people wearing fur coats?
Are you liberal, conservative or somewhere in the middle?
Do you think your parents are/were racist? How did that affect the way you think about people of other races?
From your past relationships, do you think that most people learn from their mistakes or do they simply keep repeating them?
Do you believe that most people are trustworthy and honest?
Tell me about the biggest lie you've ever told? Why did you tell it and how did you feel afterwards?
What do you do to protect the environment? Do you think you should do more?
Do you think you could go skinny dipping with your mate in private?
How about with a group of people you knew?
Have you ever been to or would you ever go to a nude beach? What is your opinion on nudism (people who enjoy being nude around others - not in a sexual way)?
Besides traffic violations, have you ever knowingly broken a law?
What did you do? Do you believe that there are some laws that aren't necessary to be kept?
Do you support (with money and/or time) any charities or causes?
If your dear friends wanted you to donate sperm or eggs because they were infertile, would you do so? How would you feel about your mate doing so? What about donating them for a couple that would remain anonymous?
Do you believe there is one right person for you out there in the world or that there can be many different potential mates that you could live blissfully with?
What sort of emotions (rage, anger, sorrow, etc.) do you think are inappropriate for people to express publicly?
What are your thoughts on handguns that serve no other real purpose than shooting people?
Have you ever stolen anything? Why? Were you caught?
Do you think astrological birth signs represents ones character?
Why?
Do you believe in God? What were you raised to believe about religion?
If you are a Christian, what does the word "submission" in Ephesians 5:21,22 mean?
How do you feel that a husband can “submit” in marriage?
Do you believe all religions are worshipping God the way He wants us to?
What has been your most negative experience with your religion or other religions?
What has been your most positive experience with your religion or other religions?
If you are turned off on religion is it because of bad experiences you have had with humans or is it because you are unhappy with God?
Do you have any customs or rituals regarding celebrating births and remembering deaths in your family?
About how many times a month/year do you attend church services?
How important is religion when deciding to seriously date someone?
What religious differences would cause you serious doubts about a long-term relationship?
Do you believe that if you give money to churches or charity that you will be financially rewarded? Rewarded in other ways?
Do you believe in ghosts, angels or extraterrestrial beings? Why?
If you have religious convictions regarding sex before marriage, what boundaries should you set up so you live up to those convictions?
If you say you are a religious person, do you really practice it? Have you studied your religion's doctrines? In which ways are you not actively following your faith?
Have you seriously studied other faiths besides your own? If you are a Christian do you know what other denominations believe and teach?
What doctrines are essential for a church to teach in order for you to be able to become a member?
Do you attend the church you were brought up in? Would you consider attending a different church/denomination if your spouse desired?
Is it more important that you attend a church where you are comfortable or is it more important that you worship with your husband/children? What do you think of couples who each attend their own Christian church?
Could you marry someone who does not share your fundamental religious beliefs?
When we die, what do you think happens to us? What do you base your opinion on?
What do you think it means to receive Christ as your Savior and Lord or "have you been saved"?
Have you ever personally received Christ as your Savior and Lord?
Yes/No/Unsure If yes, Where? When?
What would you like to happen to your body (buried, cremated, donated to science, etc.) when you die? Do you have this stipulation in writing anywhere?
What are your father's and mother's religious backgrounds?
If we practice different religions, what problems might that cause with our wedding, the way we celebrate holidays, and how we will raise our children?
Do you believe that mankind is created with free-will (the ability to make right or wrong decisions) or that everything in life is predestined (planned out for you)?
Is there any way we could use religion to help fill our marriage with love and peace?
Do you want a church wedding. If so, why?
Do you believe that the Bible is the inspired Word of God? Why?
Do you have any religious, ethical or cultural reasons why you think people of different races should not marry?
How often do you pray? Why do you pray?
Do you have any superstitions? What are they?
The Bible emphatically states that eternal life only comes through belief in Jesus Christ and his sacrifice. If you are a Christian, how do you feel about living with someone who does not have the same hope of eternal life? What if they worshipped some other god than
Jesus Christ?
If you and your mate had significantly different religious beliefs, what would you teach your children about God? Would you want your mate to teach your children things that contradict your beliefs?
Do you believe most people who convert to their mate’s religion do so out of keeping peace in the family or because they sincerely understand and believe the tenets of their mate's faith? Does it matter?
Would you be willing to go through a workshop or class that discussed the basic beliefs and doctrines of your partner’s church?
How does your faith help you cope with problems and trials?
Are there evil spirits in the world? Do you fear them?
What place do you believe religion will have in our lives?
Is religion important in your daily life? Why or why not?
How to do feel about those who are in different religions? Do you believe that God has a plan to save the whole world from eternal death (those who want to be saved) or only those who hear and believe the "truth" in this lifetime?
Were you afraid of God as a child?
To what extend do you think God expects us to follow and obey religious leaders?
Does your religion have a policy on contraception? What is it?
If you don't go to church at all or very often, do you think that might change when you have children? Why wait until then?
Can you think of anything that might make you want to stop attending church?
Do you think God created rules and instructions (a religion) to help men keep close to him? Or do you think man just made up those rules?
Do you have spiritual yearnings? What questions to life are you trying to figure out?
How many hours a week do you typically devote to your religious practices (e.g. going to church, prayer meetings, bible study, etc.)?
Do you believe in reincarnation?
Do you believe that the Satan of the Bible actually exists? If so, what is he doing? Why is he evil?
Which religions do you think are the most harmful and destructive?
Some people say they are "spiritual" but not "religious". What does that mean to you?
If you pray, what do you give thanks for and what do you ask for?
Do you fear God? Why or why not?
Do you believe that God does anything that does not make sense?
Can you always apply human logic to analyze religion?
If we currently attend the same church but years from now I lost interest and stopped attending, how do you think that might affect our marriage?
Why do you think the Bible states that Christians should meet regularly with other believers and worship Him?
Does your partner have any religious beliefs that you feel are plain wrong (not going to doctors, no birth control, animal sacrifices, not wearing make-up, etc.) and you will not go along with?
Do you prefer to be the passenger or the driver? Are you a back seat driver?
What is your primary mode of transportation? Do you wish you had a different option?
Do you ride motorcycles? Do you wear a helmet when bicycling or motorcycling? Is it the law where you live?
Do you wear your seat belt when you are in a vehicle? If not, would you wear one if your mate asked you to because they love you?
Have you ever received a D.W.I./D.U.I.? How many and how long ago?
Do you currently hitchhike from time to time? Have you ever?
Do you let your friends drive your vehicle if they need one to run an errand? Would you let you mate drive it on a regular basis?
What do you feel is important in a vehicle for you (seats 5, reliable, good gas mileage, built like a tank, looks good, fast, etc.)?
Do you keep your car clean or do you allow it to pile up with trash first?
If you and your spouse had two cars, one much nicer than the other, who do you think should drive the newer vehicle? Would it make any difference if only one of you worked?
Do you enjoy going on long road trips as the driver? As the passenger?
Do you find that driving with your partner is pleasant or stressful?
Do you personally wash and wax your car? How often?
If your partner asked you to slow down or to drive more carefully, would you?
What were you teased about when you were younger? How did that make you feel? Did you tease others?
Have you ever performed on stage in a band, a play or other performance? How did it make you feel?
Did you ever hang out with the wrong crowd in school? Did your parents know about it?
Were you a good teenager or did you give your parents a lot of grief?
Were you always getting in trouble for a particular thing when you were a child?
Did you ever run away from home? If so, why?
What school sports and activities did you participate in up through college?
What goals do you have for your marriage?
Is there anything you feel you must accomplish before you die?
What steps do you need to take to achieve these goals?
What are three goals you have for this year?
What are your top ten goals for your lifetime?
In what ways does our relationship help and/or hinder the achievement of your goals?
What is your favorite holiday? Why is it so special to you?
Do you think we should spend certain holidays with certain families or would you like to spend holidays alone (and with any kids we might have) for a change?
If you have children from another relationship, how do you negotiate with whom they spend the holidays?
What are your thoughts about couples renewing their vows?
Has anyone ever thrown an extra special birthday party for you?
What made it so memorable?
How much do you feel we should spend on Christmas? Who should we buy gifts for: friends, all relatives, co-workers, mailman, etc? Or do we want to try to celebrate it spiritually without all the commercialism? If so, how do we celebrate it?
Do your religious beliefs prohibit the celebration of certain holidays?
If you are a Christian, how can you put the focus of the Christmas season on Jesus Christ?
Who should be responsible for sending holiday cards and thank you notes from the family?
How do you think a married couple should celebrate their wedding anniversary? Does it always have to be the same way?
Who should plan wedding anniversaries? Would you like to rotate?
Should we have a yearly budget?
How important is it that you spend the holidays with your spouse and young children?
How much do you spend on wedding gifts? Birthday presents?
Christmas gifts?
Do you think partners should spend the same amount on each other for Christmas? What amount? What if one partner earns far more than the other and you keep separate accounts?
Which family members should we buy birthday or special holidays gifts for (parents, siblings, aunts/uncles, grandparents, cousins, etc.)?
How do you usually spend the "big" holidays? Do you do so mainly out of tradition or because you really enjoy celebrating it that way?
Do you decorate elaborately for holidays? Would you like to put up more decorations if you had the time/money?
Do you like to throw holiday parties or dinners? What do you usually do?
If you didn't receive any gifts for Christmas (or the major holiday you celebrate) how would you feel?
Do you usually have to work on any of the major holidays?
How did you celebrate birthdays as a child? How do you like to celebrate yours now?
Do you get emotional (irritated, sad, joyous, etc.) before or after any holidays? Which ones and why?
Where do you think you would be most comfortable living? City or country? Near the beach or closer to the mountains? Hot, warm or cold climate?
What is the bare minimum you expect in a home?
Are there duties or chores that you don't think you would do in a marriage? (take out the trash, mow the lawn, clean bathrooms, iron, etc)
Which type of home do you think would have the most benefit for our lifestyle? Apartment (no maintenance but not much privacy and not a long term investment)? House (regular yard work and maintenance but the most privacy)? Townhouse/condo (no yard or exterior maintenance but certain restrictions and not as much privacy)?
Do you keep things that have no real use and will probably never been used again (old newspapers, magazines, broken appliances, etc.)? Would you be willing to throw out or let your mate help you go through your "junk" if the clutter began to affect your relationship?
How long do you usually take to get ready in the morning?
How do you feel about your mate redecorating without consulting you?
How soon would you like to move out of our first (or current) home?
Next year? Five years? After the kids move out? Never?
Do you allow anyone to smoke in your house?
Do you like to have chores scheduled or just do them when they need it (or you feel like it)?
If you had to pick a different city to live in with your sweetheart and proximity to family and friends didn't matter, which city would it be?
Have you ever hired a cleaning service? Do you think they are a waste of money or money well spent?
What do you envision our home (our realistic home - not our dream home) looking like? The architecture, the décor, the yard, etc?
Do you usually listen to music around the house? What kind? How loud?
Do you screen phone calls before answering the phone? Can you let the phone ring during meals or when company is over or do you feel compelled to always answer it?
Do you have pests (mice, roaches, spiders, etc.) at your house?
Would you use an exterminator if your mate asked you to?
What do you like/dislike about the town(s) where you grew up?
What do you do with your junk mail?
Do you clean up the kitchen after every meal? Each night? Or when you run out of dishes or company is coming over?
How clean do you keep your house?
Do you usually put things back where they belong soon after you use them?
What temperature do you like it in the house during the winter?
Summer?
Would it bother you if I walked around the house naked?
How often do you feel the sheets should be changed?
Do you snore? Can someone hear you snoring from another room?
What are your sleeping habits (do you steal the covers, sprawl all over the bed, etc.)?
Are you able to fall asleep with the lights on? TV on?
How do you feel about your partner using your toothbrush?
If you could build a vacation home anywhere in the world, where would you build it?
Describe your getting ready for work/getting ready for bed ritual.
How often do you think a bathroom needs to be cleaned? Have you ever cleaned a toilet?
How many times a day/week do you take a shower or bath? Do you bathe in the morning or night?
How many times a day do you brush your teeth?
After you have used a towel, where do you put it? How often do you feel that towels should be replaced with fresh ones? Would you want to share your mate's towel or have your own?
When taking off your clothes, do you immediately put them in the hamper if dirty, hang them up or fold them if clean or leave them on the floor?
Does it bother you if you mate leaves their hair in the sink?
Have you ever hired a gardener? Do you think they are a waste of money or money well spent?
Do you put toxic poisons on your yard (weed killer, etc.)? How do you feel about using those chemicals?
If you and your mate decide to get a hot tub or a pool in the future, who would be responsible for cleaning it?
How many hours a week do you usually spend taking care of your yard?
Can you live in a place that has junk in the yard (broken down vehicles, old appliances, ratty furniture, etc.)? Does your yard currently have junk in it? What are your plans for the junk? Would you do everyone a favor and haul it to the dump this week?
Do you enjoy doing yard work? Do you expect your mate to help you with the yard work? Or for them to do it without you?
Do you use your yard for any activities?
Do you prefer a low maintenance yard or a style that demands a bit of work? What style do you like (lots of lawn, lots of flowers, tropical, desert, large vegetable garden, etc.)
Do you have a desire for a lot of land with your home? How much?
Do you wear anything in your hair or on your face when you go to sleep? How about a retainer or orthodontic equipment?
Do you expect that both you and your mate would go to bed that the same time each night? How would you feel if your mate wanted to stay up several hours after you went to bed? What time do you usually go to bed on a work night? Non-work night?
What chore do you most detest?
Do you make your bed every day? Does it bother you if it is left unmade?
Do you like a breeze blowing on you while you are asleep?
How important to you is a house that is clean and without clutter?
Would you be willing to clean the house to your liking if your spouse doesn't clean it to your satisfaction?
Do you feel that the pluses outweigh the minuses regarding having a television in the bedroom? What are the positives and negatives?
Do you think there are any books or movies I should read or see?
Why these?
If you had to take a paid sabbatical and couldn't work for an entire year, what would you most like to do?
How often do you go clothes shopping?
Do you have problems letting someone else control the remote control? Are you a channel surfer?
What sort of parties do you enjoy going to? Do you like to go for a short while or stay until most people have gone?
Do you enjoy going to amusement parks? Do you like going on the thrill rides?
Do you regularly go to musicals, operas or plays? If not, why?
Do you prefer to spend most weekends lazing around the house, getting out of the house or being productive?
Do you think you read too much or too little?
Do you collect anything? What and how long have you collected? To what lengths do you go to add to your collection? How much do you spend each year on your collections?
What is your favorite type of art? Do you feel you are artistic in any way?
How many books do you usually read in a year? What type of books do you read?
Do you have a favorite bar or place of entertainment? How often do you go there?
Do you have a location in the movie theater where you prefer to sit?
Do you think your family should have a limit on the hours of television watched each day? Would you be willing to start this week?
What role does art play in your life?
What are your favorite hobbies? Would you like to spend more time on them?
What shows on television do you always watch?
How many movies do you usually watch in a month?
How personally involved do you get with "your" team's performance?
If they lose, does it make you angry or put you in a bad mood?
How many hours a day on average do you spend on the computer/Internet (not counting time spent for work)?
Do you collect anything? How long have you been collecting? Why do you collect?
Which newspapers/newsmagazines do your read? How often? How often do you watch the news?
Do you go into Internet chat rooms? Are they general chat rooms or devoted to a certain topic?
What sports do you watch on television? College, Pro or both?
How often do you go to concerts? What kinds? Would you go more often if you had more time/money?
If you had a day to yourself with nothing that had to be done, how would you pamper yourself?
Do you enjoy shopping, don't care one way or the other, or detest shopping? Does it change whether it is for clothes, electronics or food?
If your mate had great interest in some sport or activity that you had absolutely no liking or interest in, would you try to like it or would you simply encourage him or her to do it without you? If your mate didn't like your hobby would you cut back significantly so you could enjoy more things together?
What are your three favorite board/card games?
On weekends how late do you like to stay out? On work nights?
Do you like any activities that are daring or risky?
How many hours of TV do you watch in an average day? When do you turn the television on and when do you turn it off?
If someone wanted to give you a $50 gift certificate to use on yourself, which store/theatre/spa would you tell him or her you wanted.
What crazy thing have you done in the name of "love"?
What things have I done that make you question whether or not I love you?
What rituals could be added to our relationship on a daily, weekly, monthly and yearly basis that would help us to remain close?
Do you think you are a romantic person? Could you convince a jury?
Would you like it if your partner massaged you without expecting any sexual outcome? If you don't give your mate massages, why not?
What sort of physical affection do you think is appropriate in public?
Does it matter whether or not the couple is married?
What one thing could we do to improve our dates together? (check out Michael Webb’s book, 300 Creative Dates at www.300creativedates.com)
How do you tend to express love for your sweetheart? (Things you do, Things you say, Gifts you buy, etc.?)
Do you think your partner is "romantic"? If not, how could he or she improve? (You might want to suggest Michael Webb's book, The
Romantic's Guide: Hundreds of Creative Tips for a Lifetime of Love bookstores everywhere or www.TheRomantic.com).
What are some things that your partner has done for you that really made you feel loved?
What's the most romantic thing that's ever been done for you?
What's the most romantic thing you've ever done?
There are many types of love. Can you name some and tell how they are different?
Have you ever written a love letter? Do you save old love letters?
People like to be shown love in different ways. What are some of the ways you like to be shown that someone loves you?
From previous relationships, what was the best date you had? What was the best date we have been on?
In what ways do you like to be romanced?
What is your definition of "romance"?
Is it difficult for you to say "I love you"?
Do you need to hear "I love you" or similar words on a regular basis from your partner?
How do you feel about the way your parents raised you? How did they do a good job and how did they mess up?
What do you think is the common link among all (or at least most) of your friends? (School, Work, Personality, Hobbies, etc.)
Do you have problems letting friendships dissolve when you realize you have little in common? Do you feel obligated to keep close family ties with relatives you would not normally choose to socialize with? Is it ever appropriate to "divorce" yourself from certain family members?
Do you like it when friends feel comfortable enough to drop by unexpectedly?
Who is your least favorite relative? Do you try to avoid him or her?
Do you have a favorite relative? What makes them so special?
Is your family important to you? Why?
Do you think you could live more than six hours away from your parents and/or siblings?
On a typical day/night out with your friends, what do you do?
Did you grow up in an ethnic or culturally unique community? What role does it play in your life? Will you want to stay active in that community when you get married?
In what ways do you think your parents could select a better mate for you than you could?
If your family hated the person you were dating and voiced strong opinion against you marrying him or her, would you get married anyway?
How have you changed since high school? What would your high school pals think about you now?
What does my family do that annoys you?
What family traditions did you have growing up? Would you want your children to continue them?
What is the most important thing you learned from your father? What are some other things he taught you?
What makes the difference between a good parent and a great parent?
Do you enjoy hosting out of town guests in your home? If so, how long?
How powerful is peer pressure to you? Do you feel you need to live in a similar fashion as your friends? Did you have problems with peer pressure in your earlier years?
Which family member are you closest to? Has it always been that way?
Have you given any thought to how you will take care of your mom and dad when they are older and need assistance?
What is your relationship with your siblings?
What makes the difference between a good husband and a great husband? Good wife and a great wife?
What did you most enjoy doing with your family when you were a kid?
How do you feel about friends, relatives or people in need living in your house for a year?
What's the biggest fight you've had with your family? Has the issue been completely settled?
How often do you see your family? Do you think that's enough or too much?
How have your family been poor role models for relationships?
Did you ever hear or see your parents fighting when you were a child? How did it make you feel?
What is the most important thing you learned from your mother?
What are some other things she taught you?
Did one of your parents love you more than the other?
Do you think it is risky or unhealthy for your mate to have a best friend's of the opposite sex?
Do any of your friends have things that make you envious?
Which of your friends is most successful? Would you like to have the same level of success?
What positive things have you learned from observing your parents' marriage?
Do you think you are a good influence on your friends or do you think they need you to be a good influence on them? How are they a bad influence?
How long do you think you could stay with my parents before you became unhappy or resentful?
When you are in a serious relationship do you tend to ignore your friends? Have you ever had friends get married and suddenly lose contact with their single friends? Is that to be expected?
Have you ever had to deal with conflict in you family? How did you do it?
Have your grandparents taught you anything really important or profound?
What is your parents' nationality? Were you raised in that culture or do you know much about it?
Do you like your last name? If you don't like it, would you consider changing it?
If we have children, how often would you like the children to see their grandparents? Do you have any particular concern about the children spending too much time with any of their grandparents or relatives (that are racist, alcoholics, foul-mouthed, ill-tempered, etc.)?
Can you say "no" to your parents when they want you to do something you would prefer not to?
When you get married, do you think there would be any changes in your social circle? Which friendships do you think you would let go and which ones would you add?
If you were married, how would you like to meet new people to socialize with?
Are you currently satisfied with the quality and quantity of friends you have? Why or why not?
Early in the dating stage, how strongly do you consider your friends and family's opinion as to whether you should continue seeing someone?
When was the last time you called your Mom, just to tell her you love her? Your Dad?
How often do you call your parents/family members?
Who is your best friend? What about this person makes them so special?
Ideally, what characteristics would your friends have?
What have your friends taught you?
Are you jealous of any of the members of your family? Why?
What does my body language tell you sometimes even though I'm not talking?
Are there any parts of a couple's private life that should not be discussed with family or friends?
Do you think your partner can listen to you and do something else (like watch TV or read the paper) at the same time? Can you?
Do you think your partner talks too much on the phone and neglects you or other important things?
Are there things that are easier to discuss with your friends than your partner?
Do you think I can usually read your body language? Where am I good at it and what do I usually get wrong?
On a typical month, how much is your long distance phone bill?
Does that include international calls?
If I get offended or irritated at something you say or do, what is the best way for me to bring it up so that you don't get angry?
Do you think someone should ever correct his or her mate in public?
How often do you feel that you really don't know your partner? Will time fill in the gaps or do you feel that your partner won't open up and you may never really know him or her?
Can you have good conversations with someone you were just introduced to?
When you really don't feel like talking to me, why is that?
Do you prefer to stay in touch with others by letter, email, or the phone?
When you ask your mate a question, does he or she always respond? How do you feel if you don't get a response?
If you are in a grouchy mood, should I leave you alone or do something else?
If there are some things from my past that are just too painful or uncomfortable to share is that ok with you? Would you be able to commit to someone who can't share everything?
Does your mate usually interrupt your sentences? Do you find it irritating? Does your mate monopolize the conversation, making it hard to speak?
Did your family tend to share feelings and emotions when you were growing up?
If you have something that you really need to do, but you keep forgetting about it, how should I remind you without being a nag?
Do you feel that your partner often takes ten minutes to tell you something when it could have been said in 30 seconds? Does that frustrate you?
Do you enjoy talking about yourself - your job, your vacations, your accomplishments, etc.?
Do you usually return phone calls and emails within a day?
Are you good at taking phone messages or passing along important calendar dates to your partner?
Do you sense that others may think that you talk too much about yourself?
How much do you think a spouse should inform his or her mate regarding their schedule and whereabouts?
Do you find it easy to start conversations with strangers?
What areas do you think we could most improve our communication? (you might want to use the book chapter headings as a guide)
What one topic do you wish I would be able to talk about more openly and freely?
Do you think you could ever give up your current life and move half way around the world for someone you love or for a perfect job?
What are your career goals 1, 5 and 20 years from now?
On average, how many hours do you work in a given week?
If your employer saw everything you did at work, what grade would he or she give you? A B C D or F?
Overall, how satisfied are you with your boss? Do you always seem to have "bad" bosses?
Do you work better alone or with a team? Why?
At what age or what level of financial stability (loans paid off, x dollars in savings) would you like to retire? How do you think you would spend your retirement?
What decisions have you made regarding how you plan to balance work and play?
Do you think you are a harder worker than most people at your job?
Are you happy with doing an average job?
How often do you call in sick when you are not really ill?
Have you ever dated someone who worked in your company? Did the company have a policy against that?
Is your business/line of work seasonal? What do you do during the slow periods?
What changes do you think I would need to make to better enjoy my career?
Do you "take your job home with you"?
Do you get a lot of satisfaction from your job - do you feel you are somehow making a difference?
Do you think you would ever have interest in running for a political office?
Would it be okay for your partner to call you at work? Visit you?
If you and your mate have significantly different levels of education, do you feel that it is hard to have a conversation on a level that is interesting and stimulating to you?
If someone wanted to finance the startup of your business with no strings attached, what business would you start?
In your present career, how much do you think you will be making in 5 years? 10 years?
If you would earn only 70% of your current wages, would you take a job that gave you 100% professional fulfillment?
Are you content with your current job? If not, why?
What was the best job you ever had? Why was it?
Would it ever be OK or desirable that you or your spouse didn't work?
If you could create the perfect job and get paid well for it, what would it be?
Have you ever gone to your boss and asked for a raise? Did you threaten to quit if you didn't get it? Did you get it?
How important is it to you that your mate is intelligent? More or less important than looks?
Have you ever felt that a promotion has been given to someone else when you were much more deserving? How did you handle it?
Do you have a role model in your profession? What about them do you admire?
What to date has been your greatest source of learning?
Do you have a real desire to (or feel that you really need to) get more education? What do you want to study? When do you want to start?
Did you go to college? Where? What degree(s) did you get, if any?
Do you think your education has paid off? How?
Is your current job position where you thought you'd be five years ago?
How much time do you currently spend working? What hours do you work? Will that change when you are married and have a family to come home to?
Do you feel like most people respect your line of work? Do you think you get the respect you deserve?
How did you choose your major in college?
How important do you think college degrees are in getting a good job? Does the college experience help you to be a successful person in more ways than just the book knowledge?
When you were a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
How do you feel about mixing business with family? Business with friends? Do you have any experiences with either scenario?
If your great uncle left you $100,000 in his will with the stipulation that you had to invest it for 15 years before you could touch it, what would you do with the money? Be as specific as possible.
Have you ever saved for a major expense or purchase or have you always put it on credit?
How often do you balance your checkbook?
Do you get stressed out when finances are really tight?
If I thought we needed help keeping our finances under control and suggested a “debt counselor” would you go with me?
What is the minimum amount you think you could spend on a wedding and be happy with it?
If you were single and quite wealthy, how would you weed out the "gold diggers"?
Would you ever spend $100 on a bottle of wine? $300? Under what circumstances?
Have you ever sued someone or been sued? What were the circumstances?
How much debt do you think a couple should shoulder themselves with the first year or two of marriage given that financial problems early in a marriage is one of the leading causes of divorce?
Do you think you could function without a credit card? Have you ever tried?
What do you put on your credit cards?
Did you complete your taxes from this previous year? Who did them? Do you always file on time?
What sort of plans have you made for retirement?
Do you have money invested in the stock market? Do you check your stocks every day? How often do you make trades?
Do you think our family has the right to know your financial affairs (whether you are rich or deep in debt)? What would you tell them if they asked how much money you and your spouse make or how much money you have in the bank?
Do you have the self-control to only spend each month what you can pay off? Or do you always carry balances on your credit cards?
Do you think we should keep our money in joint or individual accounts? Why?
How do we decide how to spend our money? Do we have free reign to spend whatever we want as long as it is "my money" or is there an amount ($100, $500, $5,000) at which we need to discuss before making a purchase?
Do you think it is wise to lend significant amounts of money to boyfriends/girlfriends? Could it cloud the relationship?
Do you think you have ever been "used" for money?
Do you often feel that your partner doesn't respect your hard earned income by the way they spend it?
Which of us has the best skills at paying the bills and keeping track of our expenses? Which of us has the best skills for investing our money?
Do you tend to buy luxury items or are you frugal with your money?
Look in your wallet. How many credit cards do you have? Do you need that many?
Would you rather live modestly and retire modestly at 50 or would you rather live more extravagantly and retire modestly at 65?
Have you ever gotten a second job to help pay for your nonessential purchases?
Do you currently have a will? If not, why?
If you got into financial difficulties, what would you try to do to get out of it?
If you were married and inherited $200,000, how would you decide what to do with the money? Would your spouse have any input?
What would you want to do if your spouse inherited the money?
Do you think your partner mismanages their money?
How much do you owe on all your credit cards? All other loans?
Do our incomes cover our expenses? Separately, and if pooled together? How much do each of us spend each month/year on the following categories: housing, clothing, food, entertainment, debt payment, and miscellaneous expenses. Should we cut back spending in any categories to achieve our goals?
If you married someone who had a lot of debt and bills, how would you feel about helping your mate pay them off?
Have you ever filed for bankruptcy?
If you and your mate's income doubled, how would you like your lifestyle to change?
If your parents were to give you $30,000 to spend on a wedding, would you be willing to spend only $5,000 on the wedding and put $25,000 down on a house if that was acceptable to your parents?
Have you ever made a loan to someone of a large sum of money?
Would you do it again?
How much per month do you think we should plan on spending on our home and its upkeep? If we begin to make significantly more money, would you like to move into a bigger/fancier home?
At what point would you consider yourself "rich"?
Have you ever dated someone just because they had (or you thought they had) money?
Do both you and your mate know where all the important papers are and how to pay the bills should something happen to one partner?
How many months of expenses do you think we should have in savings to feel secure? If we don't already have that much, how should we build up our savings?
Do you have health insurance? If we were to get married, would it be better to combine the insurance under one employer?
What problems do you see with the "my money, your money" approach to finances in a marriage?
What is your dream car? Where would you have to be financially to justify the expense?
How much do you think a person should give to a church or charity? (maybe put in terms of percentage of income)
Do you think life insurance is a wise "investment"?
Given that nearly 50% of marriages in the U.S. end in divorce do you think prenuptial agreements indicate lack of trust or is it acting wisely to protect what you have worked so hard for? What do you think would be fair terms in the agreement?
When men and women are dating, who do you think should pay for the date? Whoever arranged the date? Whoever makes the most money? Always dutch? Some other arrangement?
What sort of tipper are you? Always 15%? Or more or less depending on the service?
After you are married, how much do you expect to spend on clothes each month?
How much money do you have invested or saved (stocks, annuities, retirement funds)?
Do you think you are good or bad at handling money? How could I help you improve or how could you help me improve?
Do you think you are ever obsessed with money? Is making/spending money one of the most important things to you?
Do you think about money every day?
What are some things you have learned from me?
Do you think it is a good idea and shows maturity to be able to casually date more than one person at a time? At what point do you feel it is necessary to date only one person exclusively?
Do you think you have dated/have seriously known enough people to know for certain when a great match comes along?
How many minutes of undivided attention per day do you give your lover? Is that usually enough?
Why would you like to be married some day?
Is there anything that you feel like telling your mom or dad but you haven't? Do you think it would cause more damage to you if you said it? If not, why haven't you told him?
How many people have you dated that you said "I Love You" to?
What do you think is the secret behind couples that have been happily married for over 30 years? (check out Michael's book, 50
Secrets of Blissful Relationships - www.50secrets.com)
Have you ever said anything to me that you wish you could take back?
Do you have any fears of deeply loving someone?
In order for you to trust someone, what do you need to see in him or her?
How do you feel about your boyfriend/girlfriend showing up at your house without warning?
What do/did you most enjoy about being single?
What do/did you dislike the most about being single?
If you are dating someone, at what stage do you think it is wise to bring up the idea of marriage? If you bring up the subject before both of you are really ready to take it to the next level, what potential problems could that cause?
What exactly do marriage vows mean to you? What are legitimate grounds for divorce, if any?
Have you ever been in a relationship where you believe one person was 100% to blame for some of its problems?
If I were really bothered about you sharing our fights/disagreements with your friends and family would you agree not to do it? Or would you agree to discuss it with them only if we couldn’t solve the problem on our own within a couple of days?
What if anything would you put before your spouse?
How long is it wise to wait to tell someone you love him or her?
Should you try to build a good friendship first?
Could you live the rest of your life with me exactly the way I am now? Or would I need to change some things for you to be able to commit a lifetime to me?
How are you and your partner exactly the same?
Do you think our relationship would improve if we didn't watch television?
Who would you prefer to never speak to again? What made them so undesirable?
As a general rule, do you always kiss on a first date? What signal do you think kissing is giving?
How would you like your partner to introduce you to others? (boyfriend/girlfriend, partner, sweetheart, etc.?)
Do you think you and your partner spend enough quality time together?
How would you feel if I began to spend more time working on my hobbies and talents if it took time away from our relationship?
How can I help you with your struggles?
How do you feel about your mate greeting friends (or strangers) with a kiss?
How do you think you can help me to become a better person?
Is there anyone from your past that you still have strong feelings for?
Are they still alive?
Do you still maintain friendships with former boyfriends/girlfriends? If your mate were uncomfortable about any of those friendships, would you end them?
Have you ever lived with someone you were dating? In what ways did it lead to your break up?
If you were single, how do you think your life would be different?
Have you ever been engaged? What happened?
How important is it that a couple is friends first before they get into a love relationship? Do you think it is easy to build a friendship after a couple has already been lovers?
What is the worst thing that a former boyfriend/girlfriend has ever done to you?
What mistakes have you seen in other couples that you want to make sure doesn't happen in your marriage?
Do you keep pictures of your past lovers? Would it bother you if your spouse had photos of past lovers? What about old boyfriends/girlfriends they were not intimate with?
Have you ever been stalked by anyone? What did you do?
What do you find most frustrating about men in general? What about women?
Have you ever hit someone in a previous relationship?
Would it bother you if I maintained a friendly relationship with my ex, especially for sake of the kids? At what point would you become concerned?
In a past relationship, did you ever play games? How so?
If you were married when you died, would you want your mate to feel completely free to marry again? How long do you think he or she should wait before dating again?
How do you usually feel when you are with me for an entire day?
What makes you think you will be a great husband or wife?
Do we have any unresolved disagreements between us?
How much of your current single life do you want to maintain after you are married?
How long do you think most people can "be on their best behavior" and hide their real selves during a courtship?
If your spouse was having serious doubts about themselves or the marriage and wanted to be separated for six months to think things over, would you agree and personally live as though you still married or would that signal to you that you are free to date again?
In your successful relationships, are the people a lot like you or are they more like opposites?
Have you ever been in a relationship that you wish you never had?
What do you need from a partner to feel completely fulfilled? Has that changed over the years?
Do the needs of your relationship eclipse your personal needs very often? When and how do you deal with it?
Has anyone ever done something to you that you have never forgiven? What was it? Why haven't you been able to forgive?
In what way are you and your partner "opposites"?
Have you tended to date people older or younger than you? Why?
Have your parents given you any warnings about dating? Do you trust their advice?
What rules or standards do you set for dating? (i.e. No holding hands until you are in love, No kissing until we are talking marriage,
No sex until marriage, No dating outside my religion, etc.) Have you ever broken your rules?
How is the opposite sex an enigma to you?
Have you ever had a bad breakup? Why was it bad?
If I went to a dance or nightclub without you, how would you feel?
What is your definition of "cheating" on your mate?
How would you feel about your spouse opening your personal mail?
Bills?
Have you ever been in a committed relationship where your partner slept with someone else? Did it end the relationship?
Do you think it is healthy for couples to fight (hurting each other emotionally or physically)? What steps could we take to express our disagreements maturely so we can have a "fight-free" relationship?
Have you ever been in a committed relationship and you slept with someone else? Did you feel guilty?
Is there anything in your past that you need to disclose that might have serious consequences on our relationship in the future? Is there any "dirt" reporters might dig up if you were running for
President?
If a teenager asked for your advice on the best way to find a mate that they could spend a lifetime of happiness with, what would you say?
What details does your mate take care of that you know little or nothing about?
What, if anything, do you feel you need to sacrifice or compromise in our relationship to make it happy?
What bothered you most about your previous boyfriends/girlfriends?
Do you consider it cheating if your partner is sharing sexual thoughts and fantasies online with others? What if they are engaged in cybersex?
How do you know when you're in love and not simply infatuated?
What did your previous partners complain most about you?
If the woman in the relationship earns more money than the man how does that make you feel?
Can you recall what made you fall in love with your sweetheart?
What are the things that cause the most arguments in your relationships?
Has anyone every pressured you to get married?
Have you ever considered marrying someone because you were fearful that no one else would come along and you would rather be married than single and lonely?
If a couple has been very unhappy for five years and has tried counseling with no success, do you think they should get a divorce even though no cheating or abuse has taken place?
Why do you think adultery takes place among married couples?
What do you think you can do to help prevent it in your marriage?
Have I ever done anything or do I do things now that cause you to mistrust me?
Do you enjoy flirting with others? Why? What signals do you think flirting gives to most people? If someone were flirting with you the way your mate flirts with others, what would you think were their intentions?
Over 75% of couples that live together before getting married end up divorcing. Do you think you would be one of the exceptions or do think that living together before marriage probably hurts a relationship more than it helps?
Have you ever gotten revenge on someone? What did they do?
What did you do in return?
How would you feel if your spouse raised their voice (shouted) at you?
What do you think is the best way for couples to handle disagreements?
From your previous experiences, when you had a fight or argument with your partner, did you first run to family or friends for advice or comfort or did first try to work things out with your partner?
If I asked you to cut back the time you spend with people or activities and spend more time with me would you do it?
Do you think that if a person offends your mate they have offended you as well?
Have I ever behaved in such a way around someone that made you feel uncomfortable?
How long was your longest relationship? Do you regret staying in it that long?
What do you think is the best relationship advice you've ever received? Did the person giving it have a great marriage?
What do you think about people who want to wait until they are married to have sex?
Do you usually date people who have similar physical characteristics? What are they?
What's the largest number of people you've dated at one time? Did it cause any problems?
Do you wish your partner were more or less jealous of you?
What in your opinion are the three best things about your lover?
Do you feel that your lover is too needy at times?
In all the couples you have witnessed over the years, which one seems to be most blissful? What about their relationship would you like to be able to have?
If your spouse wanted to quit work to go back to school, write novels, or do something else that wasn't making any money, how long would you support him or her?
Have you ever thought you were in love and realized that you were only infatuated or you were quite deceived? How long did it take for you to realize it wasn't real love?
How could I make your life easier or more comfortable?
What is your opinion on how I manage problems in our relationship?
If you partner started breaking things or hitting walls because he or she lost their temper, what would you do? What if your partner hit or verbally abused you?
If someone decided that they really don't see a happy long-term relationship with you, how would you want them to end it?
If your job took you away from your mate and children for two months each year what would you do with your time? Do you think your marriage would be strengthened or weakened if this happened regularly?
What is keeping me from relaxing and enjoying our relationship to the fullest?
Do you have a feeling that your partner would like to change any of your qualities or behaviors? Which ones?
In most circumstances how long do you think most couples should date (having good communication at least on a weekly basis) in order to really know each other well enough to get engaged? How long should an engagement period be? (you might want to check out Michael's book, The Romantic's Guide to Popping the Question at www.howtoproposemarriage.com).
If you were single, what rules would you have about seeing people who were already involved with someone or who had just broken up? What about co-workers or other people you deal with on a daily basis? What experiences have led you to these rules?
How long could you spend with your partner until you needed a little break and some time alone?
What are your thoughts about telling jokes at your partner's expense?
Currently, how much personal privacy do you desire? Would it bother you if your mate was in the bathroom while you were using the toilet or the shower?
Do you find boyfriends/girlfriends easy to trust or do they have to earn your trust?
In your current relationship do you feel that it is often more work than fun? Do you think that is a sign something might be wrong or do you think that is how all relationships are?
At this stage in your life do you think you would prefer having children or being child-free? Do you think your feeling might change?
What are your thoughts on adopting children if you were unable to have children of our own? Would you adopt even if you could have children? Would you prefer surrogate motherhood or fatherhood to adoption?
If you had a son, would you want him to be circumcised? Why?
Have you read any literature on the pros/cons of circumcision?
After the birth of your child, how much time would you want to take off from work? Do you have strong feelings about the mom staying home with the children until a certain age?
If you wanted to become a one-income household after the birth of your child, what lifestyle changes would need to take place?
Do you have a preference of the sort of food you would like your children to eat? (vegetarian, organic, no sugar, etc?) Would you be willing to change your eating habits to match what you think your children should be eating?
Do you have any strong preferences on naming your children?
Do you think you could learn some important things from a parenting class? Would you be willing to go?
Should we try to move to an area that has a really good school system for our children?
Would you want your children to be home schooled? Why or why not?
Have you given any thought to how you would want to discipline your children during early childhood, adolescent years and the teen years? Be specific.
Do you think that constantly buying your children new toys teaches them to become easily bored with things?
What rules do you have that would result in eviction of your teenagers? How many warnings would you give them?
Do you regularly give financial support to your adult children? Why?
How would you feel if your spouse kept bailing your children out of trouble by giving them food, money or letting them live at home?
What sort of limitations do you think you would want to place on your children regarding, television, music, magazines, Internet, etc.?
What are the top five qualities that you hope your children will have?
Do you think a room full of toys benefits or hinders children's physical and mental development?
If you had children, what role would you want the stepparent to play?
If you were a stepparent, what role would you like to play?
How strong do you think a couple's marriage should be and how financially stable should they be before they try to have children?
If a woman doesn't feel maternal enough to want to stay home and raise her children, is it better that she make the choice not to have children?
At what age would you tell your children about sex if they started asking questions? If they weren’t asking questions? What would you tell them? Or do you prefer they learn about sex somewhere else?
Do you think it is important that your children be breast-fed for both health reasons and for bonding? If so, how long do you think your babies should be breast-fed (most babies are breast-fed anywhere from 6 months - 3 years)?
Do you think people who decide not to have children because they don't have a strong desire are selfish or wise?
Who do you think should go to parent/teacher conferences?
What do you think about drinking in front of children? What about getting drunk?
How much should a husband participate in the care of a baby? (i.e. feeding, changing diapers, late-night responsibilities, etc)? Does it depend who is the more gifted caregiver?
How do you feel about your children participating in sports where the aim is to hurt one another or there is extreme physical contact such as boxing, football or rugby?
Which, if any, household chores would you expect your children to do? Beginning at what age?
Have you read any books on parenting? Do you think it is a good idea to read these books by "experts" or just go by instinct or the advice of family and friends?
How should decisions be made in the family? Does the husband have the final say or do you do things democratically?
How were you shown affection as a child? Do you think you will show your children affection the same way or differently? What do you think is the best way?
Do you think that parents should love and care more for their children than their mates? Do you think it is natural for parents to want to love their offspring more than the person they married?
If you just found out that you and your mate were expecting a child, how would it make you feel? How do you think your relationship would change as a result?
Ideally, what are the minimum number of years you think you would need to build a solid relationship/marriage before you add children to the mix?
Do you think that it is important that the father is present at the birth of his child if at all possible?
How would you feel if you only had boys or girls? Do you strongly want a particular gender?
At what age do you think you would want to let your children group date? Single date? Will you let them go "steady" when they are teenagers?
Would you mind if your children are sexually active at the same age that you were? If you felt you had sex too early what do you think would have helped you to wait?
When you were a child, did you get an allowance? How much was it? Did you have to do chores to earn it? Would you want the same system for your children?
If your partner had a different last name than yours, whose last name should be given to the child?
If your child was born with a birth defect that required around the clock attention would you take care of the child yourself or let it live in a professional home for children with such disabilities?
What do you think makes the difference between a good parent and a great parent?
Do you believe you need to be married and have children to be "whole"?
If you knew with 100% certainty that having children would decrease your marital satisfaction by 30%, would you still want children?
Do you think you want any (more) children? How soon?
Do you think parents should foot the bill for their children's college expenses or do you think children actually appreciate and learn more when they have to pay all or a significant part themselves?
How many children do you think you would like to have?
Do you plan on rearing your children close to how you were reared, very differently or a mixture?
What would you want to teach your children about fist fighting?
How much time each day do you think you should spend with your children?
How would you want to decide on what gifts to purchase for your children?
In what areas do you think parents should sacrifice for their children and which areas should they not?
If you and your spouse worked, who would take care of any children you had?
Do you think parents have the right to return (to the store) or give away gifts given to their young children that they feel are inappropriate or junk?
What are reasons a couple should have children? What are reasons they should not?
At what age do you think you would be too old to have children to really enjoy them?
What are your child-support/custody arrangements with your ex?
Do you believe in tough love - letting children suffer consequences from their repeated mistakes?
Have you ever abused or molested a child (or been accused of it)? If so, what steps should we take to make sure it doesn't happen again?
If you and your spouse have disagreements about child rearing, what methods do you use?
Would you let your teenager drink alcohol, smoke or do drugs? If not, how would you try to keep him or her from doing so?
Do you believe children should be seen and not heard? Why or why not?
If the doctors detected that your unborn child had a severe birth defect and they could easily abort it, would you still have the baby?
Do you think parents should provide cars for their teenagers if they are financially able? Would you allow your teenager to buy his or her own car if he or she had the funds?
Are you interested in an offbeat wedding (at a nudist beach, underwater, on a roller coaster, etc.)?
What are the pros for eloping? What are the cons? Does it sound appealing to you?
Who will pay for your wedding? Does that person then have control over wedding plans?
If your sweetheart had a bachelor or bachelorette party is there anything you would find inappropriate? Would you agree not to allow anything to occur at your party that your mate feels inappropriate?
How do you feel about your mate showing up at your wedding drunk or with a hangover? How do you feel about him or her getting drunk at the wedding?
How many of your friends and family would you want to invite (and expect to show up) to your wedding?
Do you belong to a culture that has certain expectations regarding weddings and receptions?
What sort of wedding do you envision having? For what reasons would you have a completely different type of wedding or even elope?
Would you feel awkward if your partner invited former spouses or lovers to the wedding?
Who do you think will officiate at your wedding? Do you care?
Do you have any preferences regarding the honeymoon? (hot, cold, not Las Vegas, a surprise, not a surprise, etc.)?
Do you think a woman should take a man last's name? Why or why not? How about hyphenated last names? Would the man consider a hyphenated last name too?
Do you have a vision of a perfect honeymoon (or second honeymoon)?
Are you a virgin? If so, do you plan on staying one until you are married?
How do you feel about having sex during the woman's menstrual period?
What is the difference between sex and romance?
When you are in a hotel with thin walls and a squeaky bed, are you able to make love? Can you do it at your friend's house or your parent's house?
What would you do if the man has difficulty with premature ejaculation?
Do you have a preference between sex in the morning or at night?
How should we decide what position to use each time we make love? (Take turns choosing? Rotate through our favorites? Try out a new one each week? etc.)
Are there times when you just want a "quickie"? When are those?
Do you like to talk dirty during sex? Do you like it when your spouse talks dirty to you? Are there "dirty" terms that you find offensive?
How do you think it would affect the relationship if a woman often cannot reach climax? If it was a problem how would you try to solve it?
Do you think it is important that a couple have sex the first night they are married? If it has been a long and tiring day, would that make any difference?
Do you think that one should mainly focus on pleasing themselves during sex or pleasing their partner? Why?
What do I do that gives you the most sexual pleasure?
Do you think it is wise to go to counseling for sexual problems? If not, how would you want to try to work out the problems?
Do you believe that when a couple has sex for the first time, that some sort of commitment is taking place? If so, what?
Given your current sex drive, how often would you like to have sex with your spouse?
Do you have a favorite foreplay activity to turn you on?
Do you like to cuddle after sex?
Is there anything that you know of that works as an aphrodisiac for you?
Is it difficult for you to ask your mate for certain kinds of stimulation?
Does a person's sexual past matter if you really love them?
Do you think that you might have a difficult time having a passionate sex life because of a previous sexual experience or because of what you were taught about sex growing up?
Would you like to have sex outdoors? Would you do it if your partner wanted to?
Are there any songs that make you think of making love?
How would you define satisfying sex?
Have you ever been photographed or videotaped naked?
How do you feel when I tell you I'm not in the mood for sex when you request it?
If I felt that we needed to go to a sex therapist, would you go with me?
On a scale of 1-10, how strong is your sex drive? Is it increasing or is it diminishing?
Do you have any sexual fetishes?
Are there certain times of the month that your breasts are sensitive or that you don't like to be touched?
What kind of clothing do you find sexy? What sort of lingerie/underwear would you find most sexy on me for a special night?
Do you have any concerns about having sex during pregnancy?
What method of birth control do you prefer? Why?
Would you get tested for sexually transmitted diseases if I asked you?
Do you like to be visually stimulated during the course of making love?
What would you do if your partner found out he or she had an STD after you had been together?
What body parts turn you on the most?
Would you want to do a sexual act even if your spouse thought it was very unappealing?
Do you generally prefer sex to be very active and hot or gentle and warm?
Have you ever slept with a person you now know has a sexually transmitted disease (about 1 in 5 adults have some sort of STD)?
Have you ever been tested for a STD and what was the outcome? If you are infected, how has it affected your relationships?
Some people think breast and penis size matter when it comes to really good sex. What are your thoughts and/or experiences?
Do you feel self-stimulation is wrong or only when it is accompanied by sexual thoughts of someone besides your mate? Do you think masturbation is an acceptable form of sexual release when your mate isn't in the mood or available?
Have you ever been or gotten someone pregnant?
If you were in an accident and couldn't perform sexually, do you think your lover would be able to cope with that?
If a man has problems maintaining an erection on a regular basis, what would you try to do?
Do you have a favorite sex position? Why is it your favorite?
Do you have a preference of making love in the dark, by candlelight or with the lights on?
Who would you feel most comfortable talking with regarding sexual problems? Do you think they are qualified to give you good help and advice?
If you are in the mood for sex and your mate is not, would you rather your mate say "not now" or "I don't think I can climax, but I'd gladly help you get off." Would you ever want to take him or her up on it?
Have you ever watched a porno movie? If so, how often do you watch them? How often do you look at erotic magazines?
If you were ever to become addicted to pornography, how would you like me to help you break the habit?
Are there things that I say or do that lets you know I would like to make love?
There are many romantic/sex games on the market. Do you think it would be fun to try some out?
Have you ever had a one-night stand? How did that happen? Do you regret it?
Are there any scents that turn you on?
How would our sexual relationship change if I put on a significant amount of weight?
Do you think our lovemaking should increase when we go on vacation?
Do you think sex is overrated?
Do you think you could be sexually addicted? Do you find that sex often controls you instead of you controlling sex?
Would you want your mate to let you know if you haven't sexually satisfied them? How would you want them to tell you?
Do you think books are a good resource for learning new sex techniques?
If you plan on abstaining from sex until marriage, what sort of physical contact is acceptable? (holding hands, kissing, prolonged kissing, petting, etc.)
What turns you off sexually?
Is it possible for a couple to have sex too often? What problems could it cause?
How does foreplay enhance your sexual experience?
What sort of sexual things do you discuss with your friends?
How do you feel about anal sex? Do you feel it is unnatural and/or unhealthy or do you feel it is a legitimate alternative to vaginal intercourse?
Is there anything sexually you find wrong, offensive or distasteful?
Do you usually feel that when we are making love that I am just doing it to make you happy?
Do you consider these sexual experiences to be acceptable and healthy for your relationship or inappropriate and damaging to your relationship: Oral sex? Sex toys? Bondage? Threesomes, wifeswapping or orgies?
Do you think it is appropriate to use sex as a negotiating tool? Is it ever healthy for a husband/wife to withhold sex from their mate?
Would you like to take showers together on a regular basis, only every once in a while or do you prefer to take them alone?
How do you feel about women putting on makeup to make love? Do you find it sexy or silly?
Do you feel sexier with a tan? Do you think your mate looks sexier?
Do you think tan, "leathery" skin is sexy?
How would you feel if your mate lit up a cigarette right after sex?
Do you prefer your mate to make the first move or do you like to do it?
What's the biggest turn on for you?
Do you think you and your mate could or should have sex even though you are currently mad at each other?
Have you ever had sex with someone else without a condom?
Are there any forms of birth control you will not use?
What are the three most sensitive areas of your body?
Do you think it is damaging to your relationship to role-play while having sex? Is it just acting out lustful fantasies?
Would you be willing to get your tubes tied or have a vasectomy?
What do you think are the purposes of sex?
Do you think answering questions about sex will help make it a better experience for us?
What do you think is the optimum time in general for the best lovemaking?
Did your parents ever discuss their views on sex with you?
Would you ever have sex in exchange for money? For example, would you have sex for $100,000? What is the minimum amount it would take?
How has your sexuality changed over the years?
What sexual activity have you never before done but would like to try?
For you, do condoms significantly reduce the enjoyment of sex? Do they help prevent premature ejaculation?
Do you feel you know a lot about sex from experience or that you have a lot to learn?
Do you think you would enjoy phone sex with your spouse if you were apart?
How do you think sex changes as a couple grows older together?
What changes do you think take place after having children?
In sex, do you believe that if it feels good that it must be ok to do?
What places do you fantasize about having sex at?
How could our sex life become even better? Would you prefer more "quickies" or more drawn out sex? Would our sex life be more fun if we acted out fantasies, had sex in various places or tried different positions? If so, how should we plan to incorporate those changes?