What things about me remind you of anyone from your past, either
past sweethearts or good friends?
What do you think are my talents? Do you think you have any of the
same talents?
How many physical fights have you been in? Do you usually start
them? Why do you fight?
Has anyone very dear to you died? How did you handle it?
What are you most fearful of? How does that fear keep you from
doing things you would like to do?
Are you chirpy in the morning or are you a grouch?
Do you ever pick up hitchhikers? Which type of people would you
pick up?
How often do you think your gut feeling is correct? When can you
remember that it was incorrect?
What one skill do you wish you had learned but haven't yet (Play the
piano? Learn a foreign language? Fly a plane? Etc.)?
Does public speaking frighten you? Have you had much experience
with it?
What sort of reaction do you have when you get very upset?
Is it ever appropriate for someone to express anger in a physical
way? If so, when and how?
How do typically handle the trauma from a big loss whether it is from
the death of a loved one, getting fired or some other big
disappointment?
What is your typical reaction when someone criticizes you?
About what things are you most selfish?
Do you think that you are able to calmly and wisely react in
emergencies? What are some examples of emergencies you have
had?
How did you feel when a beloved pet of yours died?
Do you have a dream that repeats again and again? What is it?
What feeling do you have the most difficulty controlling?
What feeling do you have the most difficulty expressing?
How do you think I handle myself when I'm in a crisis situation?
If you could choose to know everything about one topic, what area
would you choose to be an expert?
How would someone be able to tell if you're happy? If you're sad?
Are you an organized person?
If a fire destroyed your home and all of your belongings, what would
you do? If you could take out three things before the blaze, what
would they be? (Assuming there is no one in the house at the time of
the fire.)
If you were a very talented writer and were guaranteed to sell
100,000 copies of whatever book you wrote, what would it be about?
Does any particular season make you happier than others? If so, do
you know why?
Do you like your first name? Have you ever wished you had a
different name? What name would it be?
When you are sick and feeling poorly, do you like to be alone or do
you like to be pampered and have someone close to your side most
of the time?
What is the most thoughtful, caring thing you have ever done?

9

Do you ever think that your partner gives more time, love and
affection to a child or pet and it makes you jealous?
Do you like to exaggerate things for effect?
If you had to be a different nationality, what country would you like to
have been born in? Why?
If you were given $50,000 to throw a party for all of your friends,
what sort of party would you put together?
Are you a morning, a night person or somewhere in the middle?
Do you think you would prefer a calm, loving, consistent marriage or
one that was full of excitement, wild times and rocky patches?
Do you think you are a fairly typical man/woman in the way you
think, act and believe?
Are you one who adapts to change easily? Can you cite some
examples?
Do you have a child's heart sometimes? What sort of “childish”
things do you think about doing?
Are you generally an optimist, pessimist or a realist?
How often do you cry? What situations often bring you to tears?
What makes you feel secure and safe?
Do you tend to analyze your decisions before you talk about them or
do ideas and thoughts blurt out without much forethought?
Would you describe yourself as a peace-keeper or a trouble-maker?
What type of social gatherings do you prefer - small groups or large
parties?
Do you like to be the life of the party or do you prefer intimate, one
on one conversation?
Are you more of an introvert or an extrovert? Does it change
depending on the crowd?

10

Do you experience PMS? Is it mild or severe? How does your mood
change and for how many days? How do you want to be treated
during your period?
What do you tend to be humble about? When do you catch yourself
being arrogant?
Do you tend to keep a lot of thoughts and feelings to yourself or do
you share them pretty openly?
Do you ever lose your temper? How does it manifest itself?
Do you give money to homeless people/beggars? Why or why not?
What experiences usually make you filled with joy?
Do you currently believe that you are mature and experienced
enough to be able to build and maintain a very successful marriage?
When did you feel you were ready or when do you think you will be
there?
Which do you think should have the final say in decisions - logic or
emotions? Why?
In what circumstances do you feel most at peace?
Men, what do you think is the best thing about being a guy? Women,
what do you think is the best thing about being a female?
Do you think of yourself as mechanically inclined?
If you were given the opportunity to successfully run for president,
would you do so? When you won, what three things would you most
like to improve in your country?
If someone gave you one million dollars that you were required to
give to some person or organization, who would you give it to?
Do you enjoy hugging people? Do you like receiving hugs?
What five things have you done in your life that you are most proud
of?
Tell me about the most emotional cry that you can recall.

11

Has there ever been a time when you felt like you were going to
"lose it"?
If your partner had an affair, how would you react? Could you forgive
him or her?
If your partner had a one-night fling after drinking too much, how
would you react? Could you forgive him or her?
Are you able to keep secrets? Is it hard for you?
Have you ever given a speech? What was the last one about?
Does anyone give you an inferiority complex?
Do you think that luck has much to play in your life?
Do you find it difficult to compromise on things?
Do you have a fear of being alone? Rejected? Unloved?
Is there anything that makes you feel homesick, nostalgic or
sentimental?
Do you have an idol? Do you try to model yourself after him or her in
some way?
Do you think of yourself more as a leader or a follower?
Over the last five years how do you think you have changed for the
worse? Better?
Did you have a point in your life where you turned your life around?
What one thing could you change in your behavior that would make
your relationship closer? What is keeping you from making that
change?
Is there anything that you constantly worry about?
If someone tells you a juicy tidbit about a friend or coworker, do you
have difficulty keeping it to yourself? Do you ever tell people they
shouldn't gossip?
If you were paid a salary to work for any one charity for an entire
year, which charity would you choose?

12

Would you rather be mute, blind or deaf? Which of the three would
be the worst?
Is there anything that you have practically no self-control over (ice
cream, offers for a roll in the hay, a bargain shoe sale, a beanie baby
for your collection, etc.)?
Do you think you are interesting or a bore?
Are you more sensitive than most people of your gender?
Do you usually ask for help or support or do you prefer to fail all on
your own?
If you had huge financial losses and had to liquidate all of your
possessions including your car and home, what would that do to
your self-esteem?
What makes you feel important?
How would you rate your maturity among your peers?
What is your number one flaw? What steps are you taking to
overcome it?
Do you see yourself as worthy of love? Why or why not?
What is your greatest disappointment?
Have you ever worked really hard at something but it didn't pay off in
the end?
Do you have a "special place"? Why is it so meaningful to you?
Why do you feel that you are trustworthy?
Do you think you are competitive? In what areas?
Am I a nagger? How so? Does it irritate you?
Are there any rituals you do every day?
How do you feel when someone close to you disagrees with you?
In which areas of your life do you feel like you are an independent?

13

In which areas are you dependent on others?
Do you enjoy debating others?
In what ways do you feel really blessed?
What things tend to make you angry? How do you usually react
when you are angry?
On which topics do you feel qualified at giving advice?
Would you make a serious attempt to lose weight if your partner
asked you to?
How do you think I could enjoy life more?
What is a talent that you wish you possessed?
Do you write important dates such as birthdays and anniversaries in
your calendar? Do you use a calendar? Do you usually remember
those dates?
Have you ever played any musical instruments? Which ones and do
you still play them?
If you had to be famous, what would you want to be famous for? Do
you think fame would be a good thing or a bad thing for your
relationship?
If you knew you would die in two days, how would you spend the
time until then?
How many hours does it take until you can't stand being alone
anymore?
What makes life worth living?
Do you think I am a lot like the other members of my family? How
am I like them?
What are your thoughts on crying?
Can you think of any trait of mine that reminds you of your father or
mother?

14

Are you a balanced person? If so, how did you get to be balanced? If
not, what steps do you need to take to be more balanced?
If you could make any three changes to our school systems, what
would they be?
If you could live one year of your life all over again without changing
a thing, what year would you choose? Why?
Do you prefer receiving expensive gifts or ones that come from the
heart?
Do you know most of your neighbors? Do you ever socialize with
any of them?
Have you ever lived alone? Do you or did you enjoy it?
Someone once said "A women who does not feel loved needs
jewelry, gold and dazzling gifts to be happy. A woman who truly feels
loved finds those gifts to be superfluous (nice, but not necessary)".
Do you agree?
Prior to this year, what is the best gift you've ever received? Why
was it so special?
How do feel about your mate reading your private email?
Are you camera shy? Why?
Do you feel that you need to be occasionally held or emotionally
supported by someone who is strong? Why or why not?
Do you generally make to do lists? Would you like it or be offended if
your mate helped you make a to do list?
Do you feel like you waste a lot of time? Do you wish you didn't? Do
you feel that your partner wastes a lot of time? Does that bother
you?
Do you tend to be punctual or are you usually late?
What are some things that you consider a waste of time?
What do you like most about my personality?

15

Favorites
You will find this section to be invaluable when it comes time to
celebrate a special occasion or to just let someone know they are
special. Put your sweetheart’s answers on file somewhere and refer
back to it often.
Do you have a favorite type (or a couple) of music? A favorite
singer? Or musical group?
What is your favorite fast food restaurant? How often do you eat
there? What's your favorite restaurant for casual dining? Favorite
special occasion restaurant?
Do you remember what your favorite childhood books were?
Do you have a favorite movie? Actor? Actress? Comedy? Drama?
What's your favorite alcoholic beverage?
What meal would you eat most often if you could? Do you have a
favorite "fancy" meal?
What is your favorite snack food? Dessert? What's your favorite ice
cream flavor?
Do you have a favorite and least favorite day of the week? Why do
you feel that way?
What is your favorite time of day?
What's your favorite candy bar?
What is your favorite ethnic cuisine?

16

Pets
Too many people put too little thought into pet ownership. It’s not
quite as serious as having children, but it is not that far off. Having
certain pets will affect many areas of your relationship: money,
vacations, careers and even holiday celebrations. Pets can be
expensive and make it difficult to go away for vacations (or even out
to dinner right after work). But for some, they are well worth the
sacrifices.
If you could have any pets you wanted and had the space and
money to properly care for them, what pets would you want to have?
Are you allergic to animals? If your fiancé was allergic to your pets,
would you be willing to give them away to a good home?
Are there any types of pets that you refuse to live with (snakes, rats,
stray dogs, etc.)?
Do you allow your pets to be on the furniture?
Do you get your pets "fixed" or do you allow them to keep producing
litters? What do you do with the babies?
Are there any circumstances where you think it is a good idea to put
animals "to sleep"?
Do you think that it is cruel to keep a dog in a cage or tied up most of
the time?
How do you feel about dogs that are bred to attack and have been
known to kill children (Pit Bulls, Rotweillers, etc.)?
Do you feed your pets food off of your plate? How do you feel about
that practice?
Do you take your pets with you on short trips? Long vacations? Do
you put them in a kennel or have a friend watch them?
Do you have a preference for cats or dogs? Indoor pets vs. outdoor
pets?
If you get a pet for your children and they don't take care of it, who
will be responsible for cleaning up after it, feeding it and walking it?

17

How do you feel about getting dogs professionally groomed?
If you and your mate purchased a pet and later split up, how do you
think you would decide who got the pet?
How do you feel about pets being in the bedroom or sleeping on
your bed?

18

Attractions
They say beauty is only skin deep, but that skin certainly has a way
of making men and women swoon and fawn. Red hair, great smiles,
kind eyes, full figures and a whole myriad of features are responsible
for causing men and women to come a little bit closer. Others find
the way you talk, walk, or dress to be magnetic. Some people fall in
love with the way someone looks, others fall in love with what is
beneath the skin.
If you didn't like your mate's clothing or hairstyle, would you tell him
or her? Would you want your partner to tell you?
What first attracted you to me? How has that one attraction changed
since then?
If you went bald, would you consider wearing a toupee or getting hair
plugs?
Would you want your spouse to talk with you first before they
dramatically changed their hairstyle or facial hair?
If your partner asked you to shave or not to shave (face, underarms,
legs, pubic area) would you do it? What is your preference for
shaving those areas?
If you had problems with my personal hygiene, would you be able to
tell me?
What physical or personality trait do you think makes people first
attracted to you?
Do stylish clothes, nice hair, expensive jewelry or "things" make you
feel better about yourself?
Do you think you tend to attract a certain type of person?
Do you feel like you need to dress sexy? Why or why not? Do you
feel that people who dress sexy are sending the message that they
are interested in sex?
How do you feel about permanent tattoos? Why do you think most
people get them?

19

If you suddenly became blind, how would your idea of the perfect
mate change?
Do you believe in love at first sight? If so, what about the millions of
cases when love at first site ended in disaster?
Do you really like the way I dress? What changes could I make that
would please you?
Which do you think you would rather have: a gorgeous mate who
wasn't very interested in sex or very good in bed or a very ordinary
looking spouse that was awesome in the sack?
If you could be any height and build you desire, what would it be?
Should your sweetheart love you just the way you are, or would you
be willing to make some changes (the way you dress, shaving, new
hairstyle, etc) to become more attractive to him or her?
In what ways are you smart?
How would you feel if your mate wanted to wear matching outfits or
dress like you?
What do you find attractive about my physical features? Is there a
favorite?
If you were single and wanted to write a personal ad describing your
qualities, how would it read?
Do you fear looking older?
How do you feel about women wearing makeup? What do you think
is ideal?
What is your opinion on women spending money to get their nails
done? Do you have a preference on how you like women's nails?
What do you perceive to be your physical flaws?
Are you currently comfortable with your body? If not, what would you
change to make you comfortable?
How would you feel if I had breast implants?
If you could change one thing about your body, what would it be?

20

What outfit of mine is your favorite? Why is it?
Do you think that dressing is something you do out of necessity or
do you enjoy putting outfits together?
If your aunt left you a large sum of money in her will for you to have
any sort of plastic surgery you desired would you have anything
done?
Name one or two minor changes I could make to my appearance
that would make me more attractive?

21

Health, Food & Well Being
Some people want to eat, drink, smoke and be merry while others
want to eat lean, drink moderately, exercise and be healthy. For
many people, how they take care (or don’t take care) of themselves
is part of their “lifestyle.” It dictates how early they wake up, what
friends they hang out with, what they do for entertainment and even
how they vacation. Poor mental and/or physical health can put
limitations on what the two of you will be able to do as a couple,
especially as you get older. It is no small thing to consider.
Do you have any phobias, fears or concerns about going to the
doctor?
Do you have any concerns over vaccinations or flu shots for you or
your children?
What are your feelings about recreational drugs? Have you ever
taken any and if so, how long did you use drugs? Do you still use
them?
Do you have any concerns about my health or unhealthy habits?
Second hand smoke is one of the leading causes of cancer and
breathing related illnesses. Will you allow anyone to smoke around
your children? If you smoke now would you make a serious attempt
to quit before having children?
Have you ever suffered from depression (not just feeling blue, but a
feeling of extreme sadness that leaves you nearly paralyzed)? If so,
what brought these feelings on, how long did the depression last and
what therapies worked for you?
Have you ever had serious thoughts about committing suicide? What
are your thoughts about those who kill themselves?
Do you think tobacco should be banned since it is an addictive drug?
If that happened what affect would it have on people's lives 20 years
from now? Should marijuana be made legal? How would that
change affect society 20 years from now?
When, if ever, was the first time you smoked a cigarette? Why did
you try it? How long did you smoke? If you still smoke, have you
ever seriously tried to quit?

22

Do you smoke (or chew tobacco)? How often? How long have you
been doing so and have you ever tried to stop? What methods?
Which meals would you like to be able to eat together? Do you think
we will be able to consistently do so?
Do you get irritated when you have to wait in long lines? Will you
wait 45 minutes to be seated in a restaurant?
Do you have any special dietary needs? How do you need me to
support you with this need?
Do you consider yourself in shape?
Do you live to eat or eat to live?
What do you think are your optimum hours of sleep to be fully
energized?
Do you ever diet? What sort of diets do you usually go on?
How often do you get sick? Is it a cold, flu or usually something
else?
Are you a coupon collector? Do you sometimes get fanatical about
saving money on groceries?
How many drinks does it take until you are definitely "feeling it." Do
you cut yourself off after a certain number of drinks? Or when do you
know you have had enough?
Have you ever had an emotional breakdown or been diagnosed with
a mental illness? How long did the recovery take?
What do you think about eating meals (with your family) in front of
the television? Do you think family time and discussions around the
dinner table are important?
Do you have any rooms that are off limits for bringing in food?
Do you find that you eat when you are bored, stressed, or worried?
Are there emotional times that make you want to eat?
Have you ever deliberately thrown up food or ate tiny amounts of
food to lose weight?

23

How much time per day/week do you currently exercise? How much
time do you think you should spend? How do you think we could
help each other with our exercise regimens?
Do you have any particular health concerns (e.g. heart problems,
high blood pressure, diabetes, asthma, etc.)?
Do you get a regular medical checkup? When was your last one?
Are you more likely to take over the counter medicines, prescription
medicines, homeopathic medicines, natural remedies or nothing at
all when you are sick?
Do you cook or do you only eat prepackaged food? How often do
you go out to eat?
Will you eat everything on your plate no matter how much is there
(assuming you like the food)? Or will you quit when you feel full
enough? Do you need to feel "stuffed" to be satisfied?
What form of exercise do you prefer?
Do you currently suffer from a sleeping disorder? Have you ever?
Do you enjoy eating leftovers? Do you refuse to eat leftovers?
Do you always like to sample your partner's food in restaurants?
Does it bother you if someone always wants to taste your
food/drink?
Have you ever done any stupid or dangerous things when you were
drunk? Like what?
Do you regularly take vitamins? Do you think the foods you eat have
enough naturally occurring vitamins in them?
Could you ever be married to someone whose breath and clothes
always reeked of tobacco?
Do you try to eat healthy meals? Organic?
Are you currently on any medication? What for?
On average, how many alcoholic beverages do you have in a week?
Is that all at once, on the weekend or spread about through the
week?

24

Do you like to plan your week's menu in advance or cook whatever
you are in the mood for (or have ingredients for)?
Do you enjoy cooking for company or do you feel inadequate?
Do you usually just buy what you need at the store, whatever is on
sale, or whatever looks good?
Are you highly critical of the food and service when you dine out?
Can you go out and enjoy a meal or do you always have to "rate" it?
Are you fearful of germs or food poisoning and tend to toss
everything out of the refrigerator that is more than a week old?
Were you taught proper table manners growing up? Do you feel that
your table manners need improving? Would you like for your mate to
point out where you could improve? Do your partner's table manners
embarrass you when you eat in public?
Do drink coffee? If so, how many times a week and how many cups
each day? Do you feel that you need a caffeine "fix" to get going for
the day?
Do you ever drink and drive? Would you agree not to if your partner
had a big problem with you doing so?
Do you have any allergies?
Have you been abused in any way - sexually, emotionally, or
physically? Do you still have emotional scars from it? Have you ever
counseled about it?
Are you a gourmet - enjoying trying all sorts of international cuisine
or do you prefer to eat the same basic food all the time?
Do you remember your first alcoholic drink? What were the
circumstances?
Who do you think should be responsible for grocery shopping and
cooking in a marriage? When you are married how many times a
week do you think you would eat out?
What foods do you really dislike? Are there any foods you don't eat
for health or other reasons?

25

Have you ever been hospitalized? What for? What was the
experience like?

26

Vacations
There are so many questions in this category probably because
travel is a particular passion of my wife’s and mine. It is such a
delight to be able to spend weeks relaxing, exploring and soaking up
the world’s culture with someone who loves to travel in the same
fashion as I do. I view all of our vacations as marriage retreats, a
time and experience that draw us closer together.
Do you enjoy experiencing different ways of life or do you usually
find it frustrating that they don't do things as efficiently or like the way
things are done back home?
Have you ever traveled out of the country? Do you have a passport?
When does it expire?
Do you usually do some business while you are on vacation
(answering email, checking voicemail, returning phone calls, etc.)?
How much time each day? Is that pretty much necessary?
Would you rather take a one-week $5000 vacation or would you
rather go on three different one-week vacations that cost $1700
each?
What is the maximum length vacation you think you could take away
from work without causing a problem? If you were retired or between
jobs how long could you be away?
If you could plan any vacation for us, where would it be?
When you travel, what is your usual goal (relax, sight see, see
friends/family, do culture things, eat at new restaurants, etc.)?
Do you go back to the same places again and again or do you desire
to go to new places most of the time when you travel?
Do you like to travel on the spur of the moment (hey, let's drive to
the mountains next weekend)?
How many times during the year do you travel? How many times for
business and how many pleasure vacations?
How much does your typical one week vacation cost (not including
air fare)? Do you think you take budget vacations, moderate or
expensive trips?

27

Do you fly as cheaply as possible or do you splurge for business or
first class when going on vacation?
Do you tend to get sea sick or motion sick? What cures have you
tried?
What was the best vacation you've ever taken?
Have you ever been on a group tour? What do you think about
them?
Do you like to take vacations that are activity oriented (cycling trips,
skiing trips, scuba trips, etc.)?
Do you enjoy camping? What eating/sleeping arrangements are
tolerable?
Who looks after your home when you are away on vacation?
How do you handle the language barrier when you travel to foreign
countries? Are you willing to visit places where your language might
not be spoken?
Do you think you would enjoy going on a vacation with your
sweetheart's family? Would you detest it or do you not know them
well enough to decide?
What are your thoughts on separate vacations? If we had limited
income and different travel priorities, do you think we should take
vacations without each other every once in a while?
When you go on a vacation with someone, do you like doing
everything together, most things together or most things on your own
and then getting back together for meals?
If you and your mate each have an income and maintain separate
accounts, how do you split the costs of a vacation?
What sort of research, if any, do you do before you travel
somewhere?
How do you feel about going on weekend getaways?
If you enjoy traveling, what places do you like to go to most often?
Are there any places you have no desire to go to?

28

Do you arrive at the airport ahead of time in case problems arise or
do you try to get there at the last possible minute so you don’t have
to wait?
Do you save up for a vacation or do you put it all on credit and pay it
off as you can?
How many weeks each year can you take off from work?

29

Morals, Convictions and Beliefs
Everyone has morals, convictions and beliefs. We just get them from
different sources. Some follow a religious code to try to live a good
life. Others are taught right and wrong from parents. Experiences,
both good and bad, often help us to fashion our belief system. Some
opposing viewpoints can dwell harmoniously under the same roof.
Others will cause a lifetime of pain and friction.
If we ended up having opposite political views, how would that affect
our relationship? Any particular issue you would find difficult to
tolerate the opposite viewpoint?
Have you ever committed a felony? Have you ever been arrested?
Are you listed as an organ donor on your driver's license for when
you die? Would you like for your organs to be donated?
Do you have a position on the government killing men and women
who have knowingly committed murder?
What do you think about pornography? Do you think it is ever
helpful?
How do you feel about men and women killing people from other
countries? Have you already been in a war? How did it affect you to
have to kill (or support those who killed) others?
Are you an activist for any causes?
Do you think you could kill a person if they were threatening the life
of your loved ones?
Would you be able to marry someone who formerly was in a gay
relationship or had a few homosexual experiences prior to dating
you?
Is there anyone you would be willing to die for?
Do you vote regularly? Do you vote straight Republican, Democrat
or other party? Or do you analyze each candidate and vote for who
you think is most qualified regardless of party affiliation?
Are you currently involved in any criminal activities right now?

30

Would you steal a car for $200,000 if you would be certain that you
would not be caught? What about for $1,000,000?
How would you feel if one of your friends said he or she was gay?
Would you still want to socialize with him or her?
Are you often embarrassed about how most of your race behaves?
Do you think your race is superior to all others/most?
How do you feel about gambling? If your company sent you on a
business trip to Las Vegas, what limit would you place on yourself
for gambling each day?
To what extent are you involved in politics?
How do you feel about having guns in your home?
Do you have guidelines regarding movies you will not see?
Do you use foul language? Why do you do it? Does it bother you
when you hear others cuss?
Is there anything you would physically fight for?
If you found a wallet with $300 cash in it, would you return it to its
owner? Would you turn it into the police if there was no identification
in it?
Do you feel strongly against people wearing fur coats?
Are you liberal, conservative or somewhere in the middle?
Do you think your parents are/were racist? How did that affect the
way you think about people of other races?
From your past relationships, do you think that most people learn
from their mistakes or do they simply keep repeating them?
Do you believe that most people are trustworthy and honest?
Tell me about the biggest lie you've ever told? Why did you tell it and
how did you feel afterwards?
What do you do to protect the environment? Do you think you should
do more?

31

Do you think you could go skinny dipping with your mate in private?
How about with a group of people you knew?
Have you ever been to or would you ever go to a nude beach? What
is your opinion on nudism (people who enjoy being nude around
others - not in a sexual way)?
Besides traffic violations, have you ever knowingly broken a law?
What did you do? Do you believe that there are some laws that
aren't necessary to be kept?
Do you support (with money and/or time) any charities or causes?
If your dear friends wanted you to donate sperm or eggs because
they were infertile, would you do so? How would you feel about your
mate doing so? What about donating them for a couple that would
remain anonymous?
Do you believe there is one right person for you out there in the
world or that there can be many different potential mates that you
could live blissfully with?
What sort of emotions (rage, anger, sorrow, etc.) do you think are
inappropriate for people to express publicly?
What are your thoughts on handguns that serve no other real
purpose than shooting people?
Have you ever stolen anything? Why? Were you caught?

32

Religion & Spiritual Matters
Religion and politics are the two things, it is said, which should not
be brought up at dinner because they can be so divisive. People
have given their lives for both. Since many people feel so strongly
about religion (after all, to some people their eternal life depends
upon it), it is definitely worth discussing at length with the person you
might spend the rest of your entire life with. Since the vast majority
of those who will buy this book are of the Christian faith, several
questions are addressed to them.
Do you think astrological birth signs represents ones character?
Why?
Do you believe in God? What were you raised to believe about
religion?
If you are a Christian, what does the word "submission" in Ephesians
5:21,22 mean?
How do you feel that a husband can “submit” in marriage?
Do you believe all religions are worshipping God the way He wants
us to?
What has been your most negative experience with your religion or
other religions?
What has been your most positive experience with your religion or
other religions?
If you are turned off on religion is it because of bad experiences you
have had with humans or is it because you are unhappy with God?
Do you have any customs or rituals regarding celebrating births and
remembering deaths in your family?
About how many times a month/year do you attend church services?
How important is religion when deciding to seriously date someone?
What religious differences would cause you serious doubts about a
long-term relationship?
Do you believe that if you give money to churches or charity that you
will be financially rewarded? Rewarded in other ways?

33

Do you believe in ghosts, angels or extraterrestrial beings? Why?
If you have religious convictions regarding sex before marriage, what
boundaries should you set up so you live up to those convictions?
If you say you are a religious person, do you really practice it? Have
you studied your religion's doctrines? In which ways are you not
actively following your faith?
Have you seriously studied other faiths besides your own? If you are
a Christian do you know what other denominations believe and
teach?
What doctrines are essential for a church to teach in order for you to
be able to become a member?
Do you attend the church you were brought up in? Would you
consider attending a different church/denomination if your spouse
desired?
Is it more important that you attend a church where you are
comfortable or is it more important that you worship with your
husband/children? What do you think of couples who each attend
their own Christian church?
Could you marry someone who does not share your fundamental
religious beliefs?
When we die, what do you think happens to us? What do you base
your opinion on?
What do you think it means to receive Christ as your Savior and Lord
or "have you been saved"?
Have you ever personally received Christ as your Savior and Lord?
Yes/No/Unsure If yes, Where? When?
What would you like to happen to your body (buried, cremated,
donated to science, etc.) when you die? Do you have this stipulation
in writing anywhere?
What are your father's and mother's religious backgrounds?

34

If we practice different religions, what problems might that cause
with our wedding, the way we celebrate holidays, and how we will
raise our children?
Do you believe that mankind is created with free-will (the ability to
make right or wrong decisions) or that everything in life is
predestined (planned out for you)?
Is there any way we could use religion to help fill our marriage with
love and peace?
Do you want a church wedding. If so, why?
Do you believe that the Bible is the inspired Word of God? Why?
Do you have any religious, ethical or cultural reasons why you think
people of different races should not marry?
How often do you pray? Why do you pray?
Do you have any superstitions? What are they?
The Bible emphatically states that eternal life only comes through
belief in Jesus Christ and his sacrifice. If you are a Christian, how do
you feel about living with someone who does not have the same
hope of eternal life? What if they worshipped some other god than
Jesus Christ?
If you and your mate had significantly different religious beliefs, what
would you teach your children about God? Would you want your
mate to teach your children things that contradict your beliefs?
Do you believe most people who convert to their mate’s religion do
so out of keeping peace in the family or because they sincerely
understand and believe the tenets of their mate's faith? Does it
matter?
Would you be willing to go through a workshop or class that
discussed the basic beliefs and doctrines of your partner’s church?
How does your faith help you cope with problems and trials?
Are there evil spirits in the world? Do you fear them?
What place do you believe religion will have in our lives?

35

Is religion important in your daily life? Why or why not?
How to do feel about those who are in different religions? Do you
believe that God has a plan to save the whole world from eternal
death (those who want to be saved) or only those who hear and
believe the "truth" in this lifetime?
Were you afraid of God as a child?
To what extend do you think God expects us to follow and obey
religious leaders?
Does your religion have a policy on contraception? What is it?
If you don't go to church at all or very often, do you think that might
change when you have children? Why wait until then?
Can you think of anything that might make you want to stop
attending church?
Do you think God created rules and instructions (a religion) to help
men keep close to him? Or do you think man just made up those
rules?
Do you have spiritual yearnings? What questions to life are you
trying to figure out?
How many hours a week do you typically devote to your religious
practices (e.g. going to church, prayer meetings, bible study, etc.)?
Do you believe in reincarnation?
Do you believe that the Satan of the Bible actually exists? If so, what
is he doing? Why is he evil?
Which religions do you think are the most harmful and destructive?
Some people say they are "spiritual" but not "religious". What does
that mean to you?
If you pray, what do you give thanks for and what do you ask for?
Do you fear God? Why or why not?
Do you believe that God does anything that does not make sense?
Can you always apply human logic to analyze religion?

36

If we currently attend the same church but years from now I lost
interest and stopped attending, how do you think that might affect
our marriage?
Why do you think the Bible states that Christians should meet
regularly with other believers and worship Him?
Does your partner have any religious beliefs that you feel are plain
wrong (not going to doctors, no birth control, animal sacrifices, not
wearing make-up, etc.) and you will not go along with?

37

Car & Driver
This might seem like a silly category but considering that you are
literally putting your life in someone else’s hands each time you sit in
the passenger seat, it is really very important. To many, vehicles are
more than just a mode of transportation; they are like pets or
children and are even given names.
Do you prefer to be the passenger or the driver? Are you a back seat
driver?
What is your primary mode of transportation? Do you wish you had a
different option?
Do you ride motorcycles? Do you wear a helmet when bicycling or
motorcycling? Is it the law where you live?
Do you wear your seat belt when you are in a vehicle? If not, would
you wear one if your mate asked you to because they love you?
Have you ever received a D.W.I./D.U.I.? How many and how long
ago?
Do you currently hitchhike from time to time? Have you ever?
Do you let your friends drive your vehicle if they need one to run an
errand? Would you let you mate drive it on a regular basis?
What do you feel is important in a vehicle for you (seats 5, reliable,
good gas mileage, built like a tank, looks good, fast, etc.)?
Do you keep your car clean or do you allow it to pile up with trash
first?
If you and your spouse had two cars, one much nicer than the other,
who do you think should drive the newer vehicle? Would it make any
difference if only one of you worked?
Do you enjoy going on long road trips as the driver? As the
passenger?
Do you find that driving with your partner is pleasant or stressful?
Do you personally wash and wax your car? How often?

38

If your partner asked you to slow down or to drive more carefully,
would you?

39

Past & Future
Learning more about your partner’s past will often give you an
understanding on what makes them who they are today. And
knowing their visions for the future lets you know where they are
heading (those who don’t have any goals probably aren’t going very
far).
What were you teased about when you were younger? How did that
make you feel? Did you tease others?
Have you ever performed on stage in a band, a play or other
performance? How did it make you feel?
Did you ever hang out with the wrong crowd in school? Did your
parents know about it?
Were you a good teenager or did you give your parents a lot of
grief?
Were you always getting in trouble for a particular thing when you
were a child?
Did you ever run away from home? If so, why?
What school sports and activities did you participate in up through
college?
What goals do you have for your marriage?
Is there anything you feel you must accomplish before you die?
What steps do you need to take to achieve these goals?
What are three goals you have for this year?
What are your top ten goals for your lifetime?
In what ways does our relationship help and/or hinder the
achievement of your goals?

40

Holidays & Celebrations
What should be merry and happy times can often turn into
disappointing gatherings. Differences in cultures, traditions and
philosophies can create huge hurdles for having celebrations that
will be enjoyed by all. But with wisdom, understanding and good
communication, even those hurdles can be jumped.
What is your favorite holiday? Why is it so special to you?
Do you think we should spend certain holidays with certain families
or would you like to spend holidays alone (and with any kids we
might have) for a change?
If you have children from another relationship, how do you negotiate
with whom they spend the holidays?
What are your thoughts about couples renewing their vows?
Has anyone ever thrown an extra special birthday party for you?
What made it so memorable?
How much do you feel we should spend on Christmas? Who should
we buy gifts for: friends, all relatives, co-workers, mailman, etc? Or
do we want to try to celebrate it spiritually without all the
commercialism? If so, how do we celebrate it?
Do your religious beliefs prohibit the celebration of certain holidays?
If you are a Christian, how can you put the focus of the Christmas
season on Jesus Christ?
Who should be responsible for sending holiday cards and thank you
notes from the family?
How do you think a married couple should celebrate their wedding
anniversary? Does it always have to be the same way?
Who should plan wedding anniversaries? Would you like to rotate?
Should we have a yearly budget?
How important is it that you spend the holidays with your spouse and
young children?

41

How much do you spend on wedding gifts? Birthday presents?
Christmas gifts?
Do you think partners should spend the same amount on each other
for Christmas? What amount? What if one partner earns far more
than the other and you keep separate accounts?
Which family members should we buy birthday or special holidays
gifts for (parents, siblings, aunts/uncles, grandparents, cousins,
etc.)?
How do you usually spend the "big" holidays? Do you do so mainly
out of tradition or because you really enjoy celebrating it that way?
Do you decorate elaborately for holidays? Would you like to put up
more decorations if you had the time/money?
Do you like to throw holiday parties or dinners? What do you usually
do?
If you didn't receive any gifts for Christmas (or the major holiday you
celebrate) how would you feel?
Do you usually have to work on any of the major holidays?
How did you celebrate birthdays as a child? How do you like to
celebrate yours now?
Do you get emotional (irritated, sad, joyous, etc.) before or after any
holidays? Which ones and why?

42

Home & Home Life
Dating someone and living with someone can be two completely
different experiences. It is best to know of your partner’s potentially
irritating habits before you get married and move in together. Visiting
his or her home and asking them lots of questions will give you a
great idea for what is in store. Also, one of the biggest dreams for
couples is the house they will make together. These are some fun
and exciting questions.
Where do you think you would be most comfortable living? City or
country? Near the beach or closer to the mountains? Hot, warm or
cold climate?
What is the bare minimum you expect in a home?
Are there duties or chores that you don't think you would do in a
marriage? (take out the trash, mow the lawn, clean bathrooms, iron,
etc)
Which type of home do you think would have the most benefit for our
lifestyle? Apartment (no maintenance but not much privacy and not a
long term investment)? House (regular yard work and maintenance
but the most privacy)? Townhouse/condo (no yard or exterior
maintenance but certain restrictions and not as much privacy)?
Do you keep things that have no real use and will probably never
been used again (old newspapers, magazines, broken appliances,
etc.)? Would you be willing to throw out or let your mate help you go
through your "junk" if the clutter began to affect your relationship?
How long do you usually take to get ready in the morning?
How do you feel about your mate redecorating without consulting
you?
How soon would you like to move out of our first (or current) home?
Next year? Five years? After the kids move out? Never?
Do you allow anyone to smoke in your house?
Do you like to have chores scheduled or just do them when they
need it (or you feel like it)?

43

If you had to pick a different city to live in with your sweetheart and
proximity to family and friends didn't matter, which city would it be?
Have you ever hired a cleaning service? Do you think they are a
waste of money or money well spent?
What do you envision our home (our realistic home - not our dream
home) looking like? The architecture, the décor, the yard, etc?
Do you usually listen to music around the house? What kind? How
loud?
Do you screen phone calls before answering the phone? Can you let
the phone ring during meals or when company is over or do you feel
compelled to always answer it?
Do you have pests (mice, roaches, spiders, etc.) at your house?
Would you use an exterminator if your mate asked you to?
What do you like/dislike about the town(s) where you grew up?
What do you do with your junk mail?
Do you clean up the kitchen after every meal? Each night? Or when
you run out of dishes or company is coming over?
How clean do you keep your house?
Do you usually put things back where they belong soon after you
use them?
What temperature do you like it in the house during the winter?
Summer?
Would it bother you if I walked around the house naked?
How often do you feel the sheets should be changed?
Do you snore? Can someone hear you snoring from another room?
What are your sleeping habits (do you steal the covers, sprawl all
over the bed, etc.)?
Are you able to fall asleep with the lights on? TV on?
How do you feel about your partner using your toothbrush?

44

If you could build a vacation home anywhere in the world, where
would you build it?
Describe your getting ready for work/getting ready for bed ritual.
How often do you think a bathroom needs to be cleaned? Have you
ever cleaned a toilet?
How many times a day/week do you take a shower or bath? Do you
bathe in the morning or night?
How many times a day do you brush your teeth?
After you have used a towel, where do you put it? How often do you
feel that towels should be replaced with fresh ones? Would you want
to share your mate's towel or have your own?
When taking off your clothes, do you immediately put them in the
hamper if dirty, hang them up or fold them if clean or leave them on
the floor?
Does it bother you if you mate leaves their hair in the sink?
Have you ever hired a gardener? Do you think they are a waste of
money or money well spent?
Do you put toxic poisons on your yard (weed killer, etc.)? How do
you feel about using those chemicals?
If you and your mate decide to get a hot tub or a pool in the future,
who would be responsible for cleaning it?
How many hours a week do you usually spend taking care of your
yard?
Can you live in a place that has junk in the yard (broken down
vehicles, old appliances, ratty furniture, etc.)? Does your yard
currently have junk in it? What are your plans for the junk? Would
you do everyone a favor and haul it to the dump this week?
Do you enjoy doing yard work? Do you expect your mate to help you
with the yard work? Or for them to do it without you?
Do you use your yard for any activities?

45

Do you prefer a low maintenance yard or a style that demands a bit
of work? What style do you like (lots of lawn, lots of flowers, tropical,
desert, large vegetable garden, etc.)
Do you have a desire for a lot of land with your home? How much?
Do you wear anything in your hair or on your face when you go to
sleep? How about a retainer or orthodontic equipment?
Do you expect that both you and your mate would go to bed that the
same time each night? How would you feel if your mate wanted to
stay up several hours after you went to bed? What time do you
usually go to bed on a work night? Non-work night?
What chore do you most detest?
Do you make your bed every day? Does it bother you if it is left
unmade?
Do you like a breeze blowing on you while you are asleep?
How important to you is a house that is clean and without clutter?
Would you be willing to clean the house to your liking if your spouse
doesn't clean it to your satisfaction?
Do you feel that the pluses outweigh the minuses regarding having a
television in the bedroom? What are the positives and negatives?

46

Hobbies & Entertainment
After working, sleeping and eating there isn’t much free time left in
the day. How do you like to spend it? Answers to these questions
will indicate if you will be spending a lot of your free time together or
apart. This is one area that often needs the most compromise after
you are married.
Do you think there are any books or movies I should read or see?
Why these?
If you had to take a paid sabbatical and couldn't work for an entire
year, what would you most like to do?
How often do you go clothes shopping?
Do you have problems letting someone else control the remote
control? Are you a channel surfer?
What sort of parties do you enjoy going to? Do you like to go for a
short while or stay until most people have gone?
Do you enjoy going to amusement parks? Do you like going on the
thrill rides?
Do you regularly go to musicals, operas or plays? If not, why?
Do you prefer to spend most weekends lazing around the house,
getting out of the house or being productive?
Do you think you read too much or too little?
Do you collect anything? What and how long have you collected? To
what lengths do you go to add to your collection? How much do you
spend each year on your collections?
What is your favorite type of art? Do you feel you are artistic in any
way?
How many books do you usually read in a year? What type of books
do you read?
Do you have a favorite bar or place of entertainment? How often do
you go there?

47

Do you have a location in the movie theater where you prefer to sit?
Do you think your family should have a limit on the hours of
television watched each day? Would you be willing to start this
week?
What role does art play in your life?
What are your favorite hobbies? Would you like to spend more time
on them?
What shows on television do you always watch?
How many movies do you usually watch in a month?
How personally involved do you get with "your" team's performance?
If they lose, does it make you angry or put you in a bad mood?
How many hours a day on average do you spend on the
computer/Internet (not counting time spent for work)?
Do you collect anything? How long have you been collecting? Why
do you collect?
Which newspapers/newsmagazines do your read? How often? How
often do you watch the news?
Do you go into Internet chat rooms? Are they general chat rooms or
devoted to a certain topic?
What sports do you watch on television? College, Pro or both?
How often do you go to concerts? What kinds? Would you go more
often if you had more time/money?
If you had a day to yourself with nothing that had to be done, how
would you pamper yourself?
Do you enjoy shopping, don't care one way or the other, or detest
shopping? Does it change whether it is for clothes, electronics or
food?
If your mate had great interest in some sport or activity that you had
absolutely no liking or interest in, would you try to like it or would you
simply encourage him or her to do it without you? If your mate didn't

48

like your hobby would you cut back significantly so you could enjoy
more things together?
What are your three favorite board/card games?
On weekends how late do you like to stay out? On work nights?
Do you like any activities that are daring or risky?
How many hours of TV do you watch in an average day? When do
you turn the television on and when do you turn it off?
If someone wanted to give you a $50 gift certificate to use on
yourself, which store/theatre/spa would you tell him or her you
wanted.

49

Love, Romance & Date Nights
Ask 100 people for their definitions of love and romance and you will
probably get at least a dozen different answers. It is important that
you and your partner are speaking the same language. While love
and romance often comes easy early in the relationship, it becomes
harder to maintain as years go by. Having regular date nights is an
excellent way to keep the love and romance in your marriage.
What crazy thing have you done in the name of "love"?
What things have I done that make you question whether or not I
love you?
What rituals could be added to our relationship on a daily, weekly,
monthly and yearly basis that would help us to remain close?
Do you think you are a romantic person? Could you convince a jury?
Would you like it if your partner massaged you without expecting any
sexual outcome? If you don't give your mate massages, why not?
What sort of physical affection do you think is appropriate in public?
Does it matter whether or not the couple is married?
What one thing could we do to improve our dates together? (check
out Michael Webb’s book, 300 Creative Dates at
www.300creativedates.com)
How do you tend to express love for your sweetheart? (Things you
do, Things you say, Gifts you buy, etc.?)
Do you think your partner is "romantic"? If not, how could he or she
improve? (You might want to suggest Michael Webb's book, The
Romantic's Guide: Hundreds of Creative Tips for a Lifetime of Love bookstores everywhere or www.TheRomantic.com).
What are some things that your partner has done for you that really
made you feel loved?
What's the most romantic thing that's ever been done for you?
What's the most romantic thing you've ever done?

50

There are many types of love. Can you name some and tell how
they are different?
Have you ever written a love letter? Do you save old love letters?
People like to be shown love in different ways. What are some of the
ways you like to be shown that someone loves you?
From previous relationships, what was the best date you had? What
was the best date we have been on?
In what ways do you like to be romanced?
What is your definition of "romance"?
Is it difficult for you to say "I love you"?
Do you need to hear "I love you" or similar words on a regular basis
from your partner?

51

Friends & Family
Friends and family have the ability to draw the two of you together
and they can also pull the two of you apart. When you get married,
you create a new family – one that becomes more important than
your original family and network of friends. It can be tough when you
have known your family and friends for so much longer than your
mate.
How do you feel about the way your parents raised you? How did
they do a good job and how did they mess up?
What do you think is the common link among all (or at least most) of
your friends? (School, Work, Personality, Hobbies, etc.)
Do you have problems letting friendships dissolve when you realize
you have little in common? Do you feel obligated to keep close
family ties with relatives you would not normally choose to socialize
with? Is it ever appropriate to "divorce" yourself from certain family
members?
Do you like it when friends feel comfortable enough to drop by
unexpectedly?
Who is your least favorite relative? Do you try to avoid him or her?
Do you have a favorite relative? What makes them so special?
Is your family important to you? Why?
Do you think you could live more than six hours away from your
parents and/or siblings?
On a typical day/night out with your friends, what do you do?
Did you grow up in an ethnic or culturally unique community? What
role does it play in your life? Will you want to stay active in that
community when you get married?
In what ways do you think your parents could select a better mate for
you than you could?
If your family hated the person you were dating and voiced strong
opinion against you marrying him or her, would you get married
anyway?

52

How have you changed since high school? What would your high
school pals think about you now?
What does my family do that annoys you?
What family traditions did you have growing up? Would you want
your children to continue them?
What is the most important thing you learned from your father? What
are some other things he taught you?
What makes the difference between a good parent and a great
parent?
Do you enjoy hosting out of town guests in your home? If so, how
long?
How powerful is peer pressure to you? Do you feel you need to live
in a similar fashion as your friends? Did you have problems with
peer pressure in your earlier years?
Which family member are you closest to? Has it always been that
way?
Have you given any thought to how you will take care of your mom
and dad when they are older and need assistance?
What is your relationship with your siblings?
What makes the difference between a good husband and a great
husband? Good wife and a great wife?
What did you most enjoy doing with your family when you were a
kid?
How do you feel about friends, relatives or people in need living in
your house for a year?
What's the biggest fight you've had with your family? Has the issue
been completely settled?
How often do you see your family? Do you think that's enough or too
much?
How have your family been poor role models for relationships?

53

Did you ever hear or see your parents fighting when you were a
child? How did it make you feel?
What is the most important thing you learned from your mother?
What are some other things she taught you?
Did one of your parents love you more than the other?
Do you think it is risky or unhealthy for your mate to have a best
friend's of the opposite sex?
Do any of your friends have things that make you envious?
Which of your friends is most successful? Would you like to have the
same level of success?
What positive things have you learned from observing your parents'
marriage?
Do you think you are a good influence on your friends or do you
think they need you to be a good influence on them? How are they a
bad influence?
How long do you think you could stay with my parents before you
became unhappy or resentful?
When you are in a serious relationship do you tend to ignore your
friends? Have you ever had friends get married and suddenly lose
contact with their single friends? Is that to be expected?
Have you ever had to deal with conflict in you family? How did you
do it?
Have your grandparents taught you anything really important or
profound?
What is your parents' nationality? Were you raised in that culture or
do you know much about it?
Do you like your last name? If you don't like it, would you consider
changing it?
If we have children, how often would you like the children to see their
grandparents? Do you have any particular concern about the
children spending too much time with any of their grandparents or

54

relatives (that are racist, alcoholics, foul-mouthed, ill-tempered,
etc.)?
Can you say "no" to your parents when they want you to do
something you would prefer not to?
When you get married, do you think there would be any changes in
your social circle? Which friendships do you think you would let go
and which ones would you add?
If you were married, how would you like to meet new people to
socialize with?
Are you currently satisfied with the quality and quantity of friends you
have? Why or why not?
Early in the dating stage, how strongly do you consider your friends
and family's opinion as to whether you should continue seeing
someone?
When was the last time you called your Mom, just to tell her you love
her? Your Dad?
How often do you call your parents/family members?
Who is your best friend? What about this person makes them so
special?
Ideally, what characteristics would your friends have?
What have your friends taught you?
Are you jealous of any of the members of your family? Why?

55

Communication
If your partner is willing to go through all these questions with you
that is a great sign that they value communication. If they won’t, then
you need to give this relationship some serious thought. How can
you have a relationship if you don’t talk to each other? It is
impossible. If you and your mate no longer have conversations, then
your relationship is decaying.
What does my body language tell you sometimes even though I'm
not talking?
Are there any parts of a couple's private life that should not be
discussed with family or friends?
Do you think your partner can listen to you and do something else
(like watch TV or read the paper) at the same time? Can you?
Do you think your partner talks too much on the phone and neglects
you or other important things?
Are there things that are easier to discuss with your friends than your
partner?
Do you think I can usually read your body language? Where am I
good at it and what do I usually get wrong?
On a typical month, how much is your long distance phone bill?
Does that include international calls?
If I get offended or irritated at something you say or do, what is the
best way for me to bring it up so that you don't get angry?
Do you think someone should ever correct his or her mate in public?
How often do you feel that you really don't know your partner? Will
time fill in the gaps or do you feel that your partner won't open up
and you may never really know him or her?
Can you have good conversations with someone you were just
introduced to?
When you really don't feel like talking to me, why is that?

56

Do you prefer to stay in touch with others by letter, email, or the
phone?
When you ask your mate a question, does he or she always
respond? How do you feel if you don't get a response?
If you are in a grouchy mood, should I leave you alone or do
something else?
If there are some things from my past that are just too painful or
uncomfortable to share is that ok with you? Would you be able to
commit to someone who can't share everything?
Does your mate usually interrupt your sentences? Do you find it
irritating? Does your mate monopolize the conversation, making it
hard to speak?
Did your family tend to share feelings and emotions when you were
growing up?
If you have something that you really need to do, but you keep
forgetting about it, how should I remind you without being a nag?
Do you feel that your partner often takes ten minutes to tell you
something when it could have been said in 30 seconds? Does that
frustrate you?
Do you enjoy talking about yourself - your job, your vacations, your
accomplishments, etc.?
Do you usually return phone calls and emails within a day?
Are you good at taking phone messages or passing along important
calendar dates to your partner?
Do you sense that others may think that you talk too much about
yourself?
How much do you think a spouse should inform his or her mate
regarding their schedule and whereabouts?
Do you find it easy to start conversations with strangers?
What areas do you think we could most improve our
communication? (you might want to use the book chapter headings
as a guide)

57

What one topic do you wish I would be able to talk about more
openly and freely?

58

Career and Education
As a spouse, your biggest competition is probably your mate’s
career. He or she will spend more hours at work than anywhere else
with the exception of in bed sleeping. Many men have much of their
self-esteem wrapped up in their careers and their abilities to provide
for their families. Take note whether or not your responses to these
questions match up with corresponding questions in the Money,
Vacations and Home & Home Life categories. After all, if you only
desire or have the skills to work in minimum wage jobs, dreams of
living in a mansion are fruitless.
Do you think you could ever give up your current life and move half
way around the world for someone you love or for a perfect job?
What are your career goals 1, 5 and 20 years from now?
On average, how many hours do you work in a given week?
If your employer saw everything you did at work, what grade would
he or she give you? A B C D or F?
Overall, how satisfied are you with your boss? Do you always seem
to have "bad" bosses?
Do you work better alone or with a team? Why?
At what age or what level of financial stability (loans paid off, x
dollars in savings) would you like to retire? How do you think you
would spend your retirement?
What decisions have you made regarding how you plan to balance
work and play?
Do you think you are a harder worker than most people at your job?
Are you happy with doing an average job?
How often do you call in sick when you are not really ill?
Have you ever dated someone who worked in your company? Did
the company have a policy against that?
Is your business/line of work seasonal? What do you do during the
slow periods?

59

What changes do you think I would need to make to better enjoy my
career?
Do you "take your job home with you"?
Do you get a lot of satisfaction from your job - do you feel you are
somehow making a difference?
Do you think you would ever have interest in running for a political
office?
Would it be okay for your partner to call you at work? Visit you?
If you and your mate have significantly different levels of education,
do you feel that it is hard to have a conversation on a level that is
interesting and stimulating to you?
If someone wanted to finance the startup of your business with no
strings attached, what business would you start?
In your present career, how much do you think you will be making in
5 years? 10 years?
If you would earn only 70% of your current wages, would you take a
job that gave you 100% professional fulfillment?
Are you content with your current job? If not, why?
What was the best job you ever had? Why was it?
Would it ever be OK or desirable that you or your spouse didn't
work?
If you could create the perfect job and get paid well for it, what would
it be?
Have you ever gone to your boss and asked for a raise? Did you
threaten to quit if you didn't get it? Did you get it?
How important is it to you that your mate is intelligent? More or less
important than looks?
Have you ever felt that a promotion has been given to someone else
when you were much more deserving? How did you handle it?

60

Do you have a role model in your profession? What about them do
you admire?
What to date has been your greatest source of learning?
Do you have a real desire to (or feel that you really need to) get
more education? What do you want to study? When do you want to
start?
Did you go to college? Where? What degree(s) did you get, if any?
Do you think your education has paid off? How?
Is your current job position where you thought you'd be five years
ago?
How much time do you currently spend working? What hours do you
work? Will that change when you are married and have a family to
come home to?
Do you feel like most people respect your line of work? Do you think
you get the respect you deserve?
How did you choose your major in college?
How important do you think college degrees are in getting a good
job? Does the college experience help you to be a successful person
in more ways than just the book knowledge?
When you were a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
How do you feel about mixing business with family? Business with
friends? Do you have any experiences with either scenario?

61

Money
Disagreements over money are usually cited as one of the top three
reasons most couples divorce (communication and sex are the other
two). I couldn’t think of many things potentially more frustrating than
if my partner kept putting us into debt when I desired to live modestly
and have an early retirement. How each of you view money will be a
very, very important part of your relationship. For some people
spending money is an addiction or compulsion and there is help
available.
If your great uncle left you $100,000 in his will with the stipulation
that you had to invest it for 15 years before you could touch it, what
would you do with the money? Be as specific as possible.
Have you ever saved for a major expense or purchase or have you
always put it on credit?
How often do you balance your checkbook?
Do you get stressed out when finances are really tight?
If I thought we needed help keeping our finances under control and
suggested a “debt counselor” would you go with me?
What is the minimum amount you think you could spend on a
wedding and be happy with it?
If you were single and quite wealthy, how would you weed out the
"gold diggers"?
Would you ever spend $100 on a bottle of wine? $300? Under what
circumstances?
Have you ever sued someone or been sued? What were the
circumstances?
How much debt do you think a couple should shoulder themselves
with the first year or two of marriage given that financial problems
early in a marriage is one of the leading causes of divorce?
Do you think you could function without a credit card? Have you ever
tried?
What do you put on your credit cards?

62

Did you complete your taxes from this previous year? Who did
them? Do you always file on time?
What sort of plans have you made for retirement?
Do you have money invested in the stock market? Do you check
your stocks every day? How often do you make trades?
Do you think our family has the right to know your financial affairs
(whether you are rich or deep in debt)? What would you tell them if
they asked how much money you and your spouse make or how
much money you have in the bank?
Do you have the self-control to only spend each month what you can
pay off? Or do you always carry balances on your credit cards?
Do you think we should keep our money in joint or individual
accounts? Why?
How do we decide how to spend our money? Do we have free reign
to spend whatever we want as long as it is "my money" or is there an
amount ($100, $500, $5,000) at which we need to discuss before
making a purchase?
Do you think it is wise to lend significant amounts of money to
boyfriends/girlfriends? Could it cloud the relationship?
Do you think you have ever been "used" for money?
Do you often feel that your partner doesn't respect your hard earned
income by the way they spend it?
Which of us has the best skills at paying the bills and keeping track
of our expenses? Which of us has the best skills for investing our
money?
Do you tend to buy luxury items or are you frugal with your money?
Look in your wallet. How many credit cards do you have? Do you
need that many?
Would you rather live modestly and retire modestly at 50 or would
you rather live more extravagantly and retire modestly at 65?

63

Have you ever gotten a second job to help pay for your nonessential purchases?
Do you currently have a will? If not, why?
If you got into financial difficulties, what would you try to do to get out
of it?
If you were married and inherited $200,000, how would you decide
what to do with the money? Would your spouse have any input?
What would you want to do if your spouse inherited the money?
Do you think your partner mismanages their money?
How much do you owe on all your credit cards? All other loans?
Do our incomes cover our expenses? Separately, and if pooled
together? How much do each of us spend each month/year on the
following categories: housing, clothing, food, entertainment, debt
payment, and miscellaneous expenses. Should we cut back
spending in any categories to achieve our goals?
If you married someone who had a lot of debt and bills, how would
you feel about helping your mate pay them off?
Have you ever filed for bankruptcy?
If you and your mate's income doubled, how would you like your
lifestyle to change?
If your parents were to give you $30,000 to spend on a wedding,
would you be willing to spend only $5,000 on the wedding and put
$25,000 down on a house if that was acceptable to your parents?
Have you ever made a loan to someone of a large sum of money?
Would you do it again?
How much per month do you think we should plan on spending on
our home and its upkeep? If we begin to make significantly more
money, would you like to move into a bigger/fancier home?
At what point would you consider yourself "rich"?
Have you ever dated someone just because they had (or you
thought they had) money?

64

Do both you and your mate know where all the important papers are
and how to pay the bills should something happen to one partner?
How many months of expenses do you think we should have in
savings to feel secure? If we don't already have that much, how
should we build up our savings?
Do you have health insurance? If we were to get married, would it be
better to combine the insurance under one employer?
What problems do you see with the "my money, your money"
approach to finances in a marriage?
What is your dream car? Where would you have to be financially to
justify the expense?
How much do you think a person should give to a church or charity?
(maybe put in terms of percentage of income)
Do you think life insurance is a wise "investment"?
Given that nearly 50% of marriages in the U.S. end in divorce do you
think prenuptial agreements indicate lack of trust or is it acting wisely
to protect what you have worked so hard for? What do you think
would be fair terms in the agreement?
When men and women are dating, who do you think should pay for
the date? Whoever arranged the date? Whoever makes the most
money? Always dutch? Some other arrangement?
What sort of tipper are you? Always 15%? Or more or less
depending on the service?
After you are married, how much do you expect to spend on clothes
each month?
How much money do you have invested or saved (stocks, annuities,
retirement funds)?
Do you think you are good or bad at handling money? How could I
help you improve or how could you help me improve?
Do you think you are ever obsessed with money? Is
making/spending money one of the most important things to you?
Do you think about money every day?

65

Relationships - Past & Present
You can learn a lot about someone from knowing how they handled
their previous relationships. Be cautious if you sense unhealthy
patterns with former lovers. Now is the time to honestly assess your
relationship. Are you staying in it because of fear or apathy? Or do
you think you have a potentially happy marriage in the future? Just
because someone isn’t the right mate for you doesn’t mean you
can’t be good friends (unless you have done things that would make
a friendship awkward).
What are some things you have learned from me?
Do you think it is a good idea and shows maturity to be able to
casually date more than one person at a time? At what point do you
feel it is necessary to date only one person exclusively?
Do you think you have dated/have seriously known enough people
to know for certain when a great match comes along?
How many minutes of undivided attention per day do you give your
lover? Is that usually enough?
Why would you like to be married some day?
Is there anything that you feel like telling your mom or dad but you
haven't? Do you think it would cause more damage to you if you said
it? If not, why haven't you told him?
How many people have you dated that you said "I Love You" to?
What do you think is the secret behind couples that have been
happily married for over 30 years? (check out Michael's book, 50
Secrets of Blissful Relationships - www.50secrets.com)
Have you ever said anything to me that you wish you could take
back?
Do you have any fears of deeply loving someone?
In order for you to trust someone, what do you need to see in him or
her?
How do you feel about your boyfriend/girlfriend showing up at your
house without warning?

66

What do/did you most enjoy about being single?
What do/did you dislike the most about being single?
If you are dating someone, at what stage do you think it is wise to
bring up the idea of marriage? If you bring up the subject before both
of you are really ready to take it to the next level, what potential
problems could that cause?
What exactly do marriage vows mean to you? What are legitimate
grounds for divorce, if any?
Have you ever been in a relationship where you believe one person
was 100% to blame for some of its problems?
If I were really bothered about you sharing our fights/disagreements
with your friends and family would you agree not to do it? Or would
you agree to discuss it with them only if we couldn’t solve the
problem on our own within a couple of days?
What if anything would you put before your spouse?
How long is it wise to wait to tell someone you love him or her?
Should you try to build a good friendship first?
Could you live the rest of your life with me exactly the way I am
now? Or would I need to change some things for you to be able to
commit a lifetime to me?
How are you and your partner exactly the same?
Do you think our relationship would improve if we didn't watch
television?
Who would you prefer to never speak to again? What made them so
undesirable?
As a general rule, do you always kiss on a first date? What signal do
you think kissing is giving?
How would you like your partner to introduce you to others?
(boyfriend/girlfriend, partner, sweetheart, etc.?)
Do you think you and your partner spend enough quality time
together?

67

How would you feel if I began to spend more time working on my
hobbies and talents if it took time away from our relationship?
How can I help you with your struggles?
How do you feel about your mate greeting friends (or strangers) with
a kiss?
How do you think you can help me to become a better person?
Is there anyone from your past that you still have strong feelings for?
Are they still alive?
Do you still maintain friendships with former boyfriends/girlfriends? If
your mate were uncomfortable about any of those friendships, would
you end them?
Have you ever lived with someone you were dating? In what ways
did it lead to your break up?
If you were single, how do you think your life would be different?
Have you ever been engaged? What happened?
How important is it that a couple is friends first before they get into a
love relationship? Do you think it is easy to build a friendship after a
couple has already been lovers?
What is the worst thing that a former boyfriend/girlfriend has ever
done to you?
What mistakes have you seen in other couples that you want to
make sure doesn't happen in your marriage?
Do you keep pictures of your past lovers? Would it bother you if your
spouse had photos of past lovers? What about old
boyfriends/girlfriends they were not intimate with?
Have you ever been stalked by anyone? What did you do?
What do you find most frustrating about men in general? What about
women?
Have you ever hit someone in a previous relationship?

68

Would it bother you if I maintained a friendly relationship with my ex,
especially for sake of the kids? At what point would you become
concerned?
In a past relationship, did you ever play games? How so?
If you were married when you died, would you want your mate to feel
completely free to marry again? How long do you think he or she
should wait before dating again?
How do you usually feel when you are with me for an entire day?
What makes you think you will be a great husband or wife?
Do we have any unresolved disagreements between us?
How much of your current single life do you want to maintain after
you are married?
How long do you think most people can "be on their best behavior"
and hide their real selves during a courtship?
If your spouse was having serious doubts about themselves or the
marriage and wanted to be separated for six months to think things
over, would you agree and personally live as though you still married
or would that signal to you that you are free to date again?
In your successful relationships, are the people a lot like you or are
they more like opposites?
Have you ever been in a relationship that you wish you never had?
What do you need from a partner to feel completely fulfilled? Has
that changed over the years?
Do the needs of your relationship eclipse your personal needs very
often? When and how do you deal with it?
Has anyone ever done something to you that you have never
forgiven? What was it? Why haven't you been able to forgive?
In what way are you and your partner "opposites"?
Have you tended to date people older or younger than you? Why?

69

Have your parents given you any warnings about dating? Do you
trust their advice?
What rules or standards do you set for dating? (i.e. No holding
hands until you are in love, No kissing until we are talking marriage,
No sex until marriage, No dating outside my religion, etc.) Have you
ever broken your rules?
How is the opposite sex an enigma to you?
Have you ever had a bad breakup? Why was it bad?
If I went to a dance or nightclub without you, how would you feel?
What is your definition of "cheating" on your mate?
How would you feel about your spouse opening your personal mail?
Bills?
Have you ever been in a committed relationship where your partner
slept with someone else? Did it end the relationship?
Do you think it is healthy for couples to fight (hurting each other
emotionally or physically)? What steps could we take to express our
disagreements maturely so we can have a "fight-free" relationship?
Have you ever been in a committed relationship and you slept with
someone else? Did you feel guilty?
Is there anything in your past that you need to disclose that might
have serious consequences on our relationship in the future? Is
there any "dirt" reporters might dig up if you were running for
President?
If a teenager asked for your advice on the best way to find a mate
that they could spend a lifetime of happiness with, what would you
say?
What details does your mate take care of that you know little or
nothing about?
What, if anything, do you feel you need to sacrifice or compromise in
our relationship to make it happy?
What bothered you most about your previous boyfriends/girlfriends?

70

Do you consider it cheating if your partner is sharing sexual thoughts
and fantasies online with others? What if they are engaged in cybersex?
How do you know when you're in love and not simply infatuated?
What did your previous partners complain most about you?
If the woman in the relationship earns more money than the man
how does that make you feel?
Can you recall what made you fall in love with your sweetheart?
What are the things that cause the most arguments in your
relationships?
Has anyone every pressured you to get married?
Have you ever considered marrying someone because you were
fearful that no one else would come along and you would rather be
married than single and lonely?
If a couple has been very unhappy for five years and has tried
counseling with no success, do you think they should get a divorce
even though no cheating or abuse has taken place?
Why do you think adultery takes place among married couples?
What do you think you can do to help prevent it in your marriage?
Have I ever done anything or do I do things now that cause you to
mistrust me?
Do you enjoy flirting with others? Why? What signals do you think
flirting gives to most people? If someone were flirting with you the
way your mate flirts with others, what would you think were their
intentions?
Over 75% of couples that live together before getting married end up
divorcing. Do you think you would be one of the exceptions or do
think that living together before marriage probably hurts a
relationship more than it helps?
Have you ever gotten revenge on someone? What did they do?
What did you do in return?

71

How would you feel if your spouse raised their voice (shouted) at
you?
What do you think is the best way for couples to handle
disagreements?
From your previous experiences, when you had a fight or argument
with your partner, did you first run to family or friends for advice or
comfort or did first try to work things out with your partner?
If I asked you to cut back the time you spend with people or activities
and spend more time with me would you do it?
Do you think that if a person offends your mate they have offended
you as well?
Have I ever behaved in such a way around someone that made you
feel uncomfortable?
How long was your longest relationship? Do you regret staying in it
that long?
What do you think is the best relationship advice you've ever
received? Did the person giving it have a great marriage?
What do you think about people who want to wait until they are
married to have sex?
Do you usually date people who have similar physical
characteristics? What are they?
What's the largest number of people you've dated at one time? Did it
cause any problems?
Do you wish your partner were more or less jealous of you?
What in your opinion are the three best things about your lover?
Do you feel that your lover is too needy at times?
In all the couples you have witnessed over the years, which one
seems to be most blissful? What about their relationship would you
like to be able to have?

72

If your spouse wanted to quit work to go back to school, write novels,
or do something else that wasn't making any money, how long would
you support him or her?
Have you ever thought you were in love and realized that you were
only infatuated or you were quite deceived? How long did it take for
you to realize it wasn't real love?
How could I make your life easier or more comfortable?
What is your opinion on how I manage problems in our relationship?
If you partner started breaking things or hitting walls because he or
she lost their temper, what would you do? What if your partner hit or
verbally abused you?
If someone decided that they really don't see a happy long-term
relationship with you, how would you want them to end it?
If your job took you away from your mate and children for two
months each year what would you do with your time? Do you think
your marriage would be strengthened or weakened if this happened
regularly?
What is keeping me from relaxing and enjoying our relationship to
the fullest?
Do you have a feeling that your partner would like to change any of
your qualities or behaviors? Which ones?
In most circumstances how long do you think most couples should
date (having good communication at least on a weekly basis) in
order to really know each other well enough to get engaged? How
long should an engagement period be?
(you might want to check out Michael's book, The Romantic's Guide
to Popping the Question at www.howtoproposemarriage.com).
If you were single, what rules would you have about seeing people
who were already involved with someone or who had just broken
up? What about co-workers or other people you deal with on a daily
basis? What experiences have led you to these rules?
How long could you spend with your partner until you needed a little
break and some time alone?

73

What are your thoughts about telling jokes at your partner's
expense?
Currently, how much personal privacy do you desire? Would it
bother you if your mate was in the bathroom while you were using
the toilet or the shower?
Do you find boyfriends/girlfriends easy to trust or do they have to
earn your trust?
In your current relationship do you feel that it is often more work than
fun? Do you think that is a sign something might be wrong or do you
think that is how all relationships are?

74

Children & Child Rearing
Children can bring a tremendous amount of joy to a relationship.
They can also bring headache, heartaches and backaches. There is
a lot more than choosing numbers, genders and names when it
comes to whether or not to have children. Perhaps the chief problem
in a relationship involving children is when parents have opposite
viewpoints on child rearing and discipline. It is advisable that you
interview a lot of parents that have well disciplined children before
you answer questions on that topic.
At this stage in your life do you think you would prefer having
children or being child-free? Do you think your feeling might change?
What are your thoughts on adopting children if you were unable to
have children of our own? Would you adopt even if you could have
children? Would you prefer surrogate motherhood or fatherhood to
adoption?
If you had a son, would you want him to be circumcised? Why?
Have you read any literature on the pros/cons of circumcision?
After the birth of your child, how much time would you want to take
off from work? Do you have strong feelings about the mom staying
home with the children until a certain age?
If you wanted to become a one-income household after the birth of
your child, what lifestyle changes would need to take place?
Do you have a preference of the sort of food you would like your
children to eat? (vegetarian, organic, no sugar, etc?) Would you be
willing to change your eating habits to match what you think your
children should be eating?
Do you have any strong preferences on naming your children?
Do you think you could learn some important things from a parenting
class? Would you be willing to go?
Should we try to move to an area that has a really good school
system for our children?
Would you want your children to be home schooled? Why or why
not?

75

Have you given any thought to how you would want to discipline
your children during early childhood, adolescent years and the teen
years? Be specific.
Do you think that constantly buying your children new toys teaches
them to become easily bored with things?
What rules do you have that would result in eviction of your
teenagers? How many warnings would you give them?
Do you regularly give financial support to your adult children? Why?
How would you feel if your spouse kept bailing your children out of
trouble by giving them food, money or letting them live at home?
What sort of limitations do you think you would want to place on your
children regarding, television, music, magazines, Internet, etc.?
What are the top five qualities that you hope your children will have?
Do you think a room full of toys benefits or hinders children's
physical and mental development?
If you had children, what role would you want the stepparent to play?
If you were a stepparent, what role would you like to play?
How strong do you think a couple's marriage should be and how
financially stable should they be before they try to have children?
If a woman doesn't feel maternal enough to want to stay home and
raise her children, is it better that she make the choice not to have
children?
At what age would you tell your children about sex if they started
asking questions? If they weren’t asking questions? What would you
tell them? Or do you prefer they learn about sex somewhere else?
Do you think it is important that your children be breast-fed for both
health reasons and for bonding? If so, how long do you think your
babies should be breast-fed (most babies are breast-fed anywhere
from 6 months - 3 years)?
Do you think people who decide not to have children because they
don't have a strong desire are selfish or wise?
Who do you think should go to parent/teacher conferences?

76

What do you think about drinking in front of children? What about
getting drunk?
How much should a husband participate in the care of a baby? (i.e.
feeding, changing diapers, late-night responsibilities, etc)? Does it
depend who is the more gifted caregiver?
How do you feel about your children participating in sports where the
aim is to hurt one another or there is extreme physical contact such
as boxing, football or rugby?
Which, if any, household chores would you expect your children to
do? Beginning at what age?
Have you read any books on parenting? Do you think it is a good
idea to read these books by "experts" or just go by instinct or the
advice of family and friends?
How should decisions be made in the family? Does the husband
have the final say or do you do things democratically?
How were you shown affection as a child? Do you think you will
show your children affection the same way or differently? What do
you think is the best way?
Do you think that parents should love and care more for their
children than their mates? Do you think it is natural for parents to
want to love their offspring more than the person they married?
If you just found out that you and your mate were expecting a child,
how would it make you feel? How do you think your relationship
would change as a result?
Ideally, what are the minimum number of years you think you would
need to build a solid relationship/marriage before you add children to
the mix?
Do you think that it is important that the father is present at the birth
of his child if at all possible?
How would you feel if you only had boys or girls? Do you strongly
want a particular gender?
At what age do you think you would want to let your children group
date? Single date? Will you let them go "steady" when they are
teenagers?

77

Would you mind if your children are sexually active at the same age
that you were? If you felt you had sex too early what do you think
would have helped you to wait?
When you were a child, did you get an allowance? How much was
it? Did you have to do chores to earn it? Would you want the same
system for your children?
If your partner had a different last name than yours, whose last
name should be given to the child?
If your child was born with a birth defect that required around the
clock attention would you take care of the child yourself or let it live
in a professional home for children with such disabilities?
What do you think makes the difference between a good parent and
a great parent?
Do you believe you need to be married and have children to be
"whole"?
If you knew with 100% certainty that having children would decrease
your marital satisfaction by 30%, would you still want children?
Do you think you want any (more) children? How soon?
Do you think parents should foot the bill for their children's college
expenses or do you think children actually appreciate and learn
more when they have to pay all or a significant part themselves?
How many children do you think you would like to have?
Do you plan on rearing your children close to how you were reared,
very differently or a mixture?
What would you want to teach your children about fist fighting?
How much time each day do you think you should spend with your
children?
How would you want to decide on what gifts to purchase for your
children?
In what areas do you think parents should sacrifice for their children
and which areas should they not?

78

If you and your spouse worked, who would take care of any children
you had?
Do you think parents have the right to return (to the store) or give
away gifts given to their young children that they feel are
inappropriate or junk?
What are reasons a couple should have children? What are reasons
they should not?
At what age do you think you would be too old to have children to
really enjoy them?
What are your child-support/custody arrangements with your ex?
Do you believe in tough love - letting children suffer consequences
from their repeated mistakes?
Have you ever abused or molested a child (or been accused of it)? If
so, what steps should we take to make sure it doesn't happen
again?
If you and your spouse have disagreements about child rearing,
what methods do you use?
Would you let your teenager drink alcohol, smoke or do drugs? If
not, how would you try to keep him or her from doing so?
Do you believe children should be seen and not heard? Why or why
not?
If the doctors detected that your unborn child had a severe birth
defect and they could easily abort it, would you still have the baby?
Do you think parents should provide cars for their teenagers if they
are financially able? Would you allow your teenager to buy his or her
own car if he or she had the funds?

79

Wedding & Honeymoon
It is supposed to be one of the most joyous experiences a couple will
have but often the wedding and honeymoon becomes one of the first
major disappointments in a couple’s life. When you combine friends,
family, money, religion and sex, you have a potentially explosive
combination. With wisdom, understanding, diplomacy and
determination, a couple can make the celebration a wonderful
memory.
Are you interested in an offbeat wedding (at a nudist beach,
underwater, on a roller coaster, etc.)?
What are the pros for eloping? What are the cons? Does it sound
appealing to you?
Who will pay for your wedding? Does that person then have control
over wedding plans?
If your sweetheart had a bachelor or bachelorette party is there
anything you would find inappropriate? Would you agree not to allow
anything to occur at your party that your mate feels inappropriate?
How do you feel about your mate showing up at your wedding drunk
or with a hangover? How do you feel about him or her getting drunk
at the wedding?
How many of your friends and family would you want to invite (and
expect to show up) to your wedding?
Do you belong to a culture that has certain expectations regarding
weddings and receptions?
What sort of wedding do you envision having? For what reasons
would you have a completely different type of wedding or even
elope?
Would you feel awkward if your partner invited former spouses or
lovers to the wedding?
Who do you think will officiate at your wedding? Do you care?
Do you have any preferences regarding the honeymoon? (hot, cold,
not Las Vegas, a surprise, not a surprise, etc.)?

80

Do you think a woman should take a man last's name? Why or why
not? How about hyphenated last names? Would the man consider a
hyphenated last name too?
Do you have a vision of a perfect honeymoon (or second
honeymoon)?

81

Sex
Half of you probably skipped right to this chapter and are eager to
start discussing. The other half probably wished this chapter didn’t
exist. You’d rather not have to discuss something so intimate. Sex
can be very fulfilling or very frustrating in a marriage, all depending
on how you and your partner view sex and understand each other. If
you haven’t yet had sex then you might not know your answers to
some of these questions. If you aren’t ready to make a lifelong
commitment to one another, I’d recommend skipping this section
and coming back to it when you are. I can’t think of anything that has
the potential to ruin a relationship quicker than sex too soon. If you
would like some tips and ideas on dramatically improving your sex
life, check out my website, www.500lovemakingtips.com
Are you a virgin? If so, do you plan on staying one until you are
married?
How do you feel about having sex during the woman's menstrual
period?
What is the difference between sex and romance?
When you are in a hotel with thin walls and a squeaky bed, are you
able to make love? Can you do it at your friend's house or your
parent's house?
What would you do if the man has difficulty with premature
ejaculation?
Do you have a preference between sex in the morning or at night?
How should we decide what position to use each time we make
love? (Take turns choosing? Rotate through our favorites? Try out a
new one each week? etc.)
Are there times when you just want a "quickie"? When are those?
Do you like to talk dirty during sex? Do you like it when your spouse
talks dirty to you? Are there "dirty" terms that you find offensive?
How do you think it would affect the relationship if a woman often
cannot reach climax? If it was a problem how would you try to solve
it?

82

Do you think it is important that a couple have sex the first night they
are married? If it has been a long and tiring day, would that make
any difference?
Do you think that one should mainly focus on pleasing themselves
during sex or pleasing their partner? Why?
What do I do that gives you the most sexual pleasure?
Do you think it is wise to go to counseling for sexual problems? If
not, how would you want to try to work out the problems?
Do you believe that when a couple has sex for the first time, that
some sort of commitment is taking place? If so, what?
Given your current sex drive, how often would you like to have sex
with your spouse?
Do you have a favorite foreplay activity to turn you on?
Do you like to cuddle after sex?
Is there anything that you know of that works as an aphrodisiac for
you?
Is it difficult for you to ask your mate for certain kinds of stimulation?
Does a person's sexual past matter if you really love them?
Do you think that you might have a difficult time having a passionate
sex life because of a previous sexual experience or because of what
you were taught about sex growing up?
Would you like to have sex outdoors? Would you do it if your partner
wanted to?
Are there any songs that make you think of making love?
How would you define satisfying sex?
Have you ever been photographed or videotaped naked?
How do you feel when I tell you I'm not in the mood for sex when you
request it?

83

If I felt that we needed to go to a sex therapist, would you go with
me?
On a scale of 1-10, how strong is your sex drive? Is it increasing or
is it diminishing?
Do you have any sexual fetishes?
Are there certain times of the month that your breasts are sensitive
or that you don't like to be touched?
What kind of clothing do you find sexy? What sort of
lingerie/underwear would you find most sexy on me for a special
night?
Do you have any concerns about having sex during pregnancy?
What method of birth control do you prefer? Why?
Would you get tested for sexually transmitted diseases if I asked
you?
Do you like to be visually stimulated during the course of making
love?
What would you do if your partner found out he or she had an STD
after you had been together?
What body parts turn you on the most?
Would you want to do a sexual act even if your spouse thought it
was very unappealing?
Do you generally prefer sex to be very active and hot or gentle and
warm?
Have you ever slept with a person you now know has a sexually
transmitted disease (about 1 in 5 adults have some sort of STD)?
Have you ever been tested for a STD and what was the outcome? If
you are infected, how has it affected your relationships?
Some people think breast and penis size matter when it comes to
really good sex. What are your thoughts and/or experiences?
Do you feel self-stimulation is wrong or only when it is accompanied
by sexual thoughts of someone besides your mate? Do you think

84

masturbation is an acceptable form of sexual release when your
mate isn't in the mood or available?
Have you ever been or gotten someone pregnant?
If you were in an accident and couldn't perform sexually, do you
think your lover would be able to cope with that?
If a man has problems maintaining an erection on a regular basis,
what would you try to do?
Do you have a favorite sex position? Why is it your favorite?
Do you have a preference of making love in the dark, by candlelight
or with the lights on?
Who would you feel most comfortable talking with regarding sexual
problems? Do you think they are qualified to give you good help and
advice?
If you are in the mood for sex and your mate is not, would you rather
your mate say "not now" or "I don't think I can climax, but I'd gladly
help you get off." Would you ever want to take him or her up on it?
Have you ever watched a porno movie? If so, how often do you
watch them? How often do you look at erotic magazines?
If you were ever to become addicted to pornography, how would you
like me to help you break the habit?
Are there things that I say or do that lets you know I would like to
make love?
There are many romantic/sex games on the market. Do you think it
would be fun to try some out?
Have you ever had a one-night stand? How did that happen? Do you
regret it?
Are there any scents that turn you on?
How would our sexual relationship change if I put on a significant
amount of weight?
Do you think our lovemaking should increase when we go on
vacation?

85

Do you think sex is overrated?
Do you think you could be sexually addicted? Do you find that sex
often controls you instead of you controlling sex?
Would you want your mate to let you know if you haven't sexually
satisfied them? How would you want them to tell you?
Do you think books are a good resource for learning new sex
techniques?
If you plan on abstaining from sex until marriage, what sort of
physical contact is acceptable? (holding hands, kissing, prolonged
kissing, petting, etc.)
What turns you off sexually?
Is it possible for a couple to have sex too often? What problems
could it cause?
How does foreplay enhance your sexual experience?
What sort of sexual things do you discuss with your friends?
How do you feel about anal sex? Do you feel it is unnatural and/or
unhealthy or do you feel it is a legitimate alternative to vaginal
intercourse?
Is there anything sexually you find wrong, offensive or distasteful?
Do you usually feel that when we are making love that I am just
doing it to make you happy?
Do you consider these sexual experiences to be acceptable and
healthy for your relationship or inappropriate and damaging to your
relationship: Oral sex? Sex toys? Bondage? Threesomes, wifeswapping or orgies?
Do you think it is appropriate to use sex as a negotiating tool? Is it
ever healthy for a husband/wife to withhold sex from their mate?
Would you like to take showers together on a regular basis, only
every once in a while or do you prefer to take them alone?

86

How do you feel about women putting on makeup to make love? Do
you find it sexy or silly?
Do you feel sexier with a tan? Do you think your mate looks sexier?
Do you think tan, "leathery" skin is sexy?
How would you feel if your mate lit up a cigarette right after sex?
Do you prefer your mate to make the first move or do you like to do
it?
What's the biggest turn on for you?
Do you think you and your mate could or should have sex even
though you are currently mad at each other?
Have you ever had sex with someone else without a condom?
Are there any forms of birth control you will not use?
What are the three most sensitive areas of your body?
Do you think it is damaging to your relationship to role-play while
having sex? Is it just acting out lustful fantasies?
Would you be willing to get your tubes tied or have a vasectomy?
What do you think are the purposes of sex?
Do you think answering questions about sex will help make it a
better experience for us?
What do you think is the optimum time in general for the best
lovemaking?
Did your parents ever discuss their views on sex with you?
Would you ever have sex in exchange for money? For example,
would you have sex for $100,000? What is the minimum amount it
would take?
How has your sexuality changed over the years?
What sexual activity have you never before done but would like to
try?

87

For you, do condoms significantly reduce the enjoyment of sex? Do
they help prevent premature ejaculation?
Do you feel you know a lot about sex from experience or that you
have a lot to learn?
Do you think you would enjoy phone sex with your spouse if you
were apart?
How do you think sex changes as a couple grows older together?
What changes do you think take place after having children?
In sex, do you believe that if it feels good that it must be ok to do?
What places do you fantasize about having sex at?
How could our sex life become even better? Would you prefer more
"quickies" or more drawn out sex? Would our sex life be more fun if
we acted out fantasies, had sex in various places or tried different
positions? If so, how should we plan to incorporate those changes?